mind works you have a unique cognitive
fingerprint which is that you juggle a
lot of balls
i guess that you get pretty excited
about stuff
um and what
sorry 12 12 year old sense of humor
sorry
okay so um you know i'd say that
that
okay i just got up
welcome thank you glad to be here
i'm tired but i'm all right let me um
let me just
bring up my camera and yours for a
second
what time you're a couple hours ahead of
me right that would depend on where you
are i'm in texas
oh okay i'm in l.a so you're one hour or
two hours ahead of me two hours ahead of
you
two hours okay in the future in the
future
like the sunset all right
we're almost there so while i do this so
there's not awkward silence
i was wondering uh i've always wondered
with your streams
how you how
do you interact with chat because you
usually
deal with pretty heavy subject matter so
is it sort of just
there or do you i usually ignore chat
completely when i'm talking to someone
okay interesting
which is i'm i'm sad about on some level
but also like
i try to just give the person my full
attention
right i find that there's a lot to pay
attention to
then i interact with chat during slow
moments or sometimes
you know if something is going on like
you know someone is dodging a question
i will look at chat and see if they can
tell because now chat has learned like
they've learned what resistance looks
like they've learned what dodging is
looked like
they like begin to see patterns in the
person and so i'm kind of curious like
it's
actually quite remarkable how much
people have learned
that's cool um so do you like keep it cl
you keep it closed though or do you see
no i have i have a second monitor
over here okay and that i i usually
don't because sometimes like i need to
keep track because i won't you know i'll
have muted something by accident or
whatever so i need to have it somewhat
available but
usually right you know eyes forward
all right turn this down so welcome
thank you thank you and what what do you
go by
what should i call you sasha is good or
or if you hang around long enough uncle
uncle yes yes can you help me
yeah my chat affectionately refers to me
as uncle
uncle sasha or just uncle it can be
uncle sasha teo gray
it could just be uncle oh i see there's
a few variations
and how did you come to become an uncle
inside jokes you know twitch loves to
meme everything
so i don't know i i think it
just something i said and did pro but
probably over a period of time
um somebody commented you're like a cool
uncle
and it stuck and it it hasn't gone away
but i like it
awesome cool and and so you said you're
a little tired today
is that just because it's early in the
morning or yeah
that sadly yes yes so i'm already on i
brought coffee
yeah it'll be good um yeah so thank you
so much for accommodating you know the
central time zone appreciate oh don't
worry
of course and is there something in
particular you want to talk about today
or something that um
you think we should spend our time on
yes
so a couple things that i would like to
talk about
are procrastination okay and
parasocial relationships i think those
are two
uh things that are very relevant to me
um and my community though like it's
something that
we're all interested in and that we have
discussed in the past
and so what should we start with i will
do what should we start with
and chat okay and then then one other
thing
um that i did want to ask just so we can
also set it up for the people that like
maybe they're not part of my regular
community but they're just here lurking
hi lurkers
um is that
you you are a doctor but what you do on
twitch
um you have to fully disclose that it's
not therapy
right so i've heard some people say that
they're confused by this or that
if it's not therapy then what's the
point of
putting people on stream to provide
entertainment
so i think i'd i'd just like to hear
your thoughts on that yeah so we could
sort of set the foundation and also be
clear with everybody that's watching
that like
yeah we're having discussions and we're
being as open as
i feel comfortable with but um at the
same time it's not therapy and we don't
want people to take
that away and you know possibly
misinterpret things as well
can i so i can give you an answer but
can i ask you a couple of questions
just because i'm curious what you think
so what do you think i do on stream
so i've watched a few of your streams i
haven't watched them in a while
when i watch your streams i've
i've not done therapy so i can't say but
it feels like therapy to me okay and i
feel like i am learning something
and i feel a lot of people can relate to
that so
there is there can be a blurred line um
i think for everybody watching but i'm
also
emotionally intelligent enough to
understand that like
there are reasons there are disclosures
and people have to be safe
and people also that are chatting with
you probably have their own boundaries
just like i do as well
sure so and then what what do you think
so i understand you haven't
been to therapy before but what do you
think therapy is
that's a great question i think therapy
is a tool to help people
better understand what sets them back in
life
that's like the best way i can view it
or to work through problems that are
maybe maybe
affecting their life personally that
slows them down from growing in life
okay that's a wonderful answer right so
it's like
helping people move forward in life in
some way
yes so let's say
i'm teo gray and and is theo gray like
you know like if i have a problem like
who do i come to like we're like oh go
talk to theo gray like theo gray is like
is wise right theogrey will help you
like and and people come to your chat
and they're struggling with something
and like theo gray like steps in and
it's like hey
you know this is what you should do like
and you can really help someone in that
situation right
does that make you a therapist
definitely not
definitely not so then what
you know but like helping someone move
forward in life i i think that that's a
really good answer for what therapy is
but i would say that you know we do that
a lot of people who aren't therapists to
do that what do you think about that
i agree and i actually joke to some of
my close friends that sometimes i feel
like a therapist
because not so much with chat
necessarily but in real life
i can't tell you how many times people
come up to me
and they just expel their problems
and this has been something that has
happened to me since i was like 11 years
old ish
i don't know what it is what kind of
aura or thing i have around me but
people
love to tell me their problems like
people i've never met yep
and that's so do you want it
sorry go ahead do you want to talk about
that today
uh i know it's not procrastination or
potentially parasocial relationships but
i'm down to talk about it yeah okay yeah
all right so
let's just table that for a second but
we should definitely talk about it
because that's very interesting
uh so but so then then what you know if
people come to you
right people come out of the woodwork
you were
standing there eating a sandwich you
know
in in a park and someone comes to you
and they're like
diogray like everything is wrong with
and so
so you feel like their therapist you're
supporting them emotionally so then like
what
what what is the difference between you
and a therapist
qualified i don't have the experience or
or
the tools to really help somebody i
don't think
in the same way that a therapist could
and
okay so let's talk about that what what
way
could a therapist help them that you are
not trained in
the tools and education i think because
i i have spoken to
people that work in mental health um
that are qualified
so i know a little bit or i know enough
to understand that
a trained professional has the tools to
sort of like dig deep and i i hate this
word because it's overused right now but
unpack
like the reasons and motivations behind
somebody's um
problems i guess you could say so let's
say that for a moment that i am doing
therapy on twitch
so there's like an ethical concern with
that right because like
you know i'm talking with people
publicly and so if i'm a doctor
and we say that there's an ethical issue
there then that means that i'm not
allowed to stream on twitch right
does that make sense so then like if
someone wants to offer life advice
or wants to help people on twitch what
we're essentially saying is that the
more qualified you are
the less we are going to allow you to do
that
that sucks right that's interesting yeah
yeah so it's like like i can if i didn't
have an md degree like i could show up
here
and be like a spiritual cult leader
and and that would be totally fine like
that's like ethically completely
acceptable
but the more qualified i become the less
i am able to help people right i
and i do i actually wanted to talk to
you about that as well because
i've seen so many people on social media
it doesn't matter what platform
speak like they are in when you said
a group like a cult leader that just
makes me laugh because sometimes you do
get that feeling from people sometimes
they speak as if they are qualified but
you know maybe they took
some therapy they read a few self-help
books and then they realized wow like
this has helped me and that's great
that's super positive but then they they
present themselves as somebody who's
qualified
but they're really just sharing really
not always but
quite often superficial armchair
analysis of situations
and of life right and what do you think
about that
um it makes me laugh usually because i i
tend to see through those kind of things
um other times it's impressive
because you know we we do live in a
society where
we applaud people who are self-made so
sometimes it's actually pretty
impressive
uh but what i often find is that
these type of people end up
regurgitating a lot of
similar um small tidbits
of self-help advice and so
one of those things that i've been
hearing a lot in the past year
is about procrastination and i am
a master procrastinator good um
and so something that is your ayurvedic
dosha by the way do you know what
ayurveda does
no i don't okay we'll explain a little
bit
okay um so
so what i've heard a lot of these people
say is well you
you pro okay let's do it we're gonna
talk about procrastination
you procrastinate because and it always
leads into you procrastinate
because you are afraid of success
okay okay before we jump into
procrastination can we do that
can i share my ethical thing about
therapy and streaming
yes yeah yeah yeah it's totally
move from one into the other but let me
just kind of close that up for a second
yeah
so like i think it's interesting right
because what you're essentially saying
is that the less qualified you are the
more you are allowed to speak the fewer
ethical concerns you have
totally fine we're going to get into
that in a second so here's here's what
i'd say when you say that
clinicians i mean you know licensed
professionals are trained
so what really trained in that the
average
you know internet guru is not is
clinical illness
so if you look at like literally the you
know american psychiatric association's
definition of therapy it's like you know
an intervention that is designed to help
someone with a clinical illness
to treat depression schizophrenia
bipolar disorder addictions things like
that
so i think i know that what i do looks
and feels like therapy to some people
um probably overlaps at some but i don't
think that that's
i i think the real thing that you know
and that's because you guys just haven't
seen me do therapy like
if you saw me do therapy you'd
understand the difference and people who
have come into my office before
understand the difference there's a
longitudinal relationship there are
usually diagnoses involved there are
treatments involved
i don't treat anything i don't diagnose
anything and some people may feel like
that's a technicality like i'm skirting
that
but really it's not i mean i think that
part of what i've discovered and this
this also goes to a broader conversation
about mental health is that
somewhere along the way like if you
think about there are a lot of things we
do for our physical health that are not
medicine
and like that's totally fine but like
what do we do for our mental health that
isn't therapy
right right so like there's actually all
kinds of emotional nutrition like
emotional support like
theo gray case in point you know like
you fulfill
something for these people that a
therapist fills for some patients
but i don't think that that makes you a
therapist i think what we've actually
done
is broadened the umbrella of therapy to
include all things mental health
and just like physical health like
there's nutritionists there's personal
trainers
there's massage therapists there's
physical therapists there are medical
doctors there are surgeons
and so if we think about the physical
body there's so there's a chef
right like there's so many things that
we do to support our physical health
and as a society i think like therapists
have sort of
monopolized the mental health space
and i think now that we're you know
meditation is on the rise and stuff like
that so a lot of people get benefit
through that you know like a lot of
people get benefit from theo gray like
you know there's a lot of different
things out there that can support mental
health and so
you know i feel pretty good about what i
do because it's really not diagnosing or
treating illness like sometimes i'll get
close to that line but i'll purposely
not step over it
because i think that does change the
relationship um
you know and and i think that part of
the problem is that like i think more
people should be
doing what i'm doing
not less like it's it's you know i don't
yeah i think that like
you can support your mental health in
ways that are not therapy
um i agree um and and i'd also like to
add to that like
i i also don't think it's possible to
have
a real mental health therapy session
on camera with
for me personally you know when i know
i'm
i'm aware that our there are people
watching i would
i could never open up to you on camera
the same way i could open up to you as
if we had a private relationship
as patient and therapist right so like
i and i i think some people it's hard
for them to understand that but like any
time you put a camera on somebody they
will change
how does the camera change wait hold on
i was going to ask you
a question about how a camera changes
you but it occurred to me that that is
outside of the two topics that we had
discussed are you yeah okay if i ask you
that
sure yeah how does the camera change you
you see it for me personally when a
camera goes on
more i'm more
a little more i'll say a little more
energetic because in professional
settings people
said be more energetic but i definitely
um
it's like being on a stage you feel that
you're
putting on i don't want to say a show
because that's a little bit too extreme
but
you are presenting yourself you know
that people are watching you know that
people are listening
and so i'm not gonna sit here uh you
know
like hunched over lean back unless it's
a 12-hour stream
um i'm gonna present myself a certain
way
whereas if in real life i'm like
20 times more chilled than this
and i am very monotone
uh so there is a there is a big
difference and you see it too though
like
you see it with babies on social media
you just
you'll see parents recording their kids
and the minute that the toddler realizes
that there's a camera on them they light
up right they change
and philosophically speaking we all wear
masks
right so i i want to present
the version of myself that i want you
guys to see
and i and i think most people do that
whether or not they're aware of it
okay so let me ask you something sasha
so you try to present a version of
yourself makes perfect sense right like
that's
what we do as streamers and at the same
time i'm noticing that
people are drawn to you since the age of
11.
right so i'm kind of curious how do you
understand what they're
what are they seeing
that's that i ask myself all the time
and i don't really have an answer for
that
um maybe more so now like as an adult as
somebody who's in
the public eye i i understand like what
are they seeing they're seeing somebody
with experience
uh that has come from
that is best known as coming from an
industry that
a lot of people consider extreme or
taboo
but that i've also been able to grow and
have success outside of that so i feel
like there is a
level of trust that people feel
when they ask me questions so they trust
my advice based on my experience
so i'm gonna push back against that for
a second okay
so people come to you and you're saying
okay the reason they come to me is
because
i you know i've i've transitioned
industries i'm
experienced i'm whatever blah blah blah
whatever you just said right it's very
very well crafted very intelligent but
why did they come to you when you were
11.
that i can't figure out right so let's
speak and be careful because like if
they were coming to you then
like you can come up with all the
answers that you want now
right but like what makes you think it
wasn't the same thing that it was when
you were 11.
i get well when i really think back on
it like i'm
um there's a big age gap between my
siblings and i
um i'm the younger and i'm the youngest
but i felt like
i was held to my own i was held to
similar standards
so even though i was much younger i had
the
their wisdom to sort of look up to and i
was always
probably i don't wanna
i don't wanna stay serious but maybe
a little bit more um
what's the word i'm looking for a little
bit more mature than
some of my peers maybe but at the same
time not because i was a total
goof and loved to be loud and and
and stupid and funny you know like any
kid are you special
i don't
sorry i feel sick uh i'm laughing
because that feels like something so
sweet that my mom would ask me
okay am i special i think everyone's
special
i don't you know while i say these
things about like
about my current self as an adult i
don't want that to come off as
pompous um because at the end of the day
i'm still a human right and i still have
flaws and and i still have my own issues
and problems like
every human being does so it's not to
come off and say that like i
you know this is me and i am great for
these things but
do i think about like
life am i special yeah yes i'm special
everybody's special but you have to
you have to recognize that to motivate
yourself
to be positive but i don't
i'm i'm a very humble person
yeah so there's something interesting
that just happened right like there's an
answer to the question which is
if we really dig through the [ __ ]
the answer is yes
but there's the mask on top which is
like i'm not allowed to say yes because
then i'd come across
as pompous right yes
agreed and and this is where like sasha
i think that like what people and
this is the challenge i mean i i'm
you know i know you're successful in
everything but i i think that like
you're actually not showing the best
part of yourself
because there's something that people
have been like drawn to
since you were a child which you
purposely
push to the back when you present
yourself a particular way
what do you think about that
i think that's something i've never
thought about so it's
it's actually fascinating like what
could i be pushing back
right because you so yeah and i think i
don't have an answer to that
yeah yeah it's maybe we'll get there but
maybe we won't yeah
but i think it's just interesting
because i think what i'm hearing is that
almost i mean so this is where you know
if you wanted to run a cult you'd do a
very good job
because there there are people
i i've noticed this right so like like
there are people who
you know like that other humans are
drawn to
i'm sorry i'm laughing so hard because
uh
there's an inside joke in my in my
community we say
uh we're not a cult yeah and
it's just it's funny it's funny i'm not
surprised that people have joked about
you being a cult leader
because i think you have the makings of
a cult leader
i see that i see the um title now you
make it you make it seem as if
that's information that i need i already
had that information like i'm aware
we've figured this out already people
have been drawn to you since the age of
11.
this is what happens right so sometimes
people like you
wind up in positions of public
prominence
right so like that sometimes happens
like some people call this charisma
but i think the the real question is
when people come to you are you able to
help them
i hope so i hope so for sure
you hope for sure i hope so for sure and
i say that because again
it's so hard
i think there's a difference between
stream life and irl
so when somebody brings up a topic in
chat
um you know i don't of course i can't
answer everything or respond to
everything nobody can but um
when i see something that i feel like i
should respond to or that i can respond
to
or i can relate to i do try to give my
best advice but
i also know that it's hard to keep the
attention of people
um and i hope that the things that they
are getting
why do you think people like okay so
when people come to you and you try to
do your best to help them let's forget
about stream for a second let's talk
about
yeah non-mask let's talk about tio gray
right which is interesting because you
actually have a persona right like a
persona of like the friendly person that
people come to
um the person who's understanding and
supportive and and
you know and and so when you're that
person like do you think you help people
like forget about stream and
chat and stuff irl for sure yeah
so i know i mean i know i have like yeah
helped people get out of bad situations
and how do you understand how you're
able to do that
why is it that you're able to do that
whereas potentially other people may not
be able to
i'm very patient okay
and i'm a good listener
those are like the two immediate things
that come to mind
can i think about that for a second yeah
and i and i guess to add to that
uh i've lost my train of thought sorry i
think
if it comes back to me i'll bring it up
again
i get the sense that you know sure
you're a patient you're a listener but
that you kind of know
what they need to hear in that moment
yeah but i i'm
like you said cut through the [ __ ] i
also
i try not to sugarcoat things for people
yep right which is what they need to
hear yeah
so i i think that there's a certain so
it's interesting because what i'm
hearing you kind of say is that you're
like transparent and authentic with them
and that people respond very well to
because i i think you probably do a good
job of being compassionate but also not
sugar coating things
what would you say yeah i'm definitely
empathetic i can definitely i feel other
people's pain
intensely intensely it's insane
so much so that sometimes like i feel i
have to work on shutting that off
okay
yeah you have the makings of a of a cult
leader for sure
like these are the attributes so like
this is actually well described
in in some of these old yogic texts
right so you exhibit many of the things
because like you know like these like
these you know religious figures like
they start when they're young
like they'll like you know leave home at
the age of 10 and we'll like
climb the himalayas and things like that
and like some people express
this kind of um uh
you know they have like a certain
temperament where like people seem to be
drawn to them and
for whatever reason they have some
degree of like insight and you're kind
of
able to say the right things um you're
compassionate i don't know how you know
where this is going to go but i
definitely see that so one thing that
some of these old texts would say is
that you've done a lot of spiritual work
in a past life
have no idea what your religious beliefs
are you know we can go down that road if
you want to but
um you know that's how they would
describe what this turned because like
some of that
carries over to this life and so when
you're you know born you kind of
describe being a little bit more mature
and you you attribute it to all kinds of
things like you had older siblings and
stuff like that but i'd say it's like
temperamental i'd say it's personality
too that generally speaking you seem to
be pretty chill and pretty monotone
you're actually like
not that um
yeah so like those are all like
characteristics that are consistent with
spirituality and a past or a lot of
spiritual practice
in a past life and
yeah so i i mean i think that you just
gotta i would encourage you to think a
little bit about
you know there are advantages to putting
the mask on and and being higher energy
and there are advantages to offering
people what they expect
but i suspect that
the most that you have to offer actually
gets pushed to the back when you put on
the mask
and do you think do you think that's
again it's hard to distinct sometimes
hard to distinguish like do you
think that applies to both
irl and on stream
no i think it's more on stream because i
think irl you don't wear the mask and so
whatever it is it's kind of like a moth
to a flame right it's kind of weird it's
like
you're exuding some kind of signal that
makes like randos come to you and ask
for help
and and i know this because i've been
exuding the signal for many years too
and so like people would you know my
wife calls it collecting strays
that i collect strays like humans will
come to me and they'll be like
can you help me with this thing and and
it's been happening for a long time and
it took me a while to realize what that
was is that you know i can be a cult
leader too
that's why you just have to be careful
because you have to know what you're
dealing with so you don't actually
become a cult
um yeah i think um i think part of
a large part of that is
tos and so
there's so many
abstract rules of what we can and can't
talk about
that it makes it difficult sometimes to
go in depth with things
um other days i just want a game
sure i just want to cook you know and i
and i don't want to do that or be that
um but there are other things that
that i am within this realm of helping
people that
i am passionate about but i feel like
are difficult to discuss on stream
because of those rules
like i always i feel like we're always
having to watch what we say
and i feel like it's only gotten worse
over the past year um
so that's yeah that's can you tell me
more that makes it hard
what's gotten worse over the past year i
feel like the
enforcement of these
enforcement of rules has become in
somebody
i just thought of the court of my eyes
somebody said arbitrary yes i meant
arbitrary not abstract thank you
um there feels like there's a lot of
arbitrary rules
uh that we're not even aware of or that
the rules are arbitrarily enforced and
every day you see on twitter a streamer
saying like
i got banned and i don't know why
and i still don't know you know and it's
temporary but still i don't know why
and so i do feel like i i have to be
really careful when it comes to the
subject that
subject matter that we speak about um we
as content creators are at the mercy
of of these platforms right
um while it's great we are able to be
here and and
do what we do and make a living doing it
on the other hand
um these are major corporations that
you know at the end of the day they
dictate their own rules and it doesn't
matter if it's twitch or any other
social media platform
it's just the way it is and a lot of
voices are also suppressed like
i am shadow band everywhere so to have
what does that mean shadow band means
that on the internet your name is
blocked
uh from being from like smart search and
auto search
so you know when you type something in
on the internet and you write like
cute k and then it autofills
kittens and it drops down you click on
it so
that's one thing that's a form of shadow
banning but it also means that they
block all of your social media profiles
from being seen by other people like
they they literally cut your reach off
even to the people that already follow
you so it makes it very difficult to
have
organic growth and have people find you
um so knowing that
and then also knowing what i have on
twitch
it makes it very difficult to be able to
like have more open and
um sometimes adult let's say adult
conversations right like conversations
that are meant
for grown-ups without and i say that and
i know people are going to laugh but
like
seriously it's not only 13 year olds on
twitch
right so there's a lot of there's
a lot of a lot of frustrating things
that happen
you're quite analytical yeah
sometimes too much i i'm getting the
sense that you
calculate a lot like i'm hearing you
kind of
you know really be aware of what the
different variables of the equation are
it's impressive um
thanks also seems like a little bit of
an uphill battle
does it feel that way sometimes
every day
every day every day yeah my uh
my catchphrase is a lot of continua
which loosely translates to the struggle
continues
what's it like to struggle every day
i try not to um
while that means a lot to me i try it's
a fight right like
there are days where i feel like yeah
today i'm gonna take over the world and
i'm gonna
yes brain uh you know like this is it i
i have
confidence and i'm motivated and then
there's other days where you feel
exhausted
and you and you want to go move
to a foreign country and like invest all
your time in helping other people
and live on a farm right or like live in
the wilderness
helping build homes for people that's
how you start a cult
get yourself a patch patch land in the
wilderness
start growing your own food become
self-sustaining
dude okay sorry no we'll talk about that
later i don't want to get off topic what
man go for you can't leave me hanging
okay so
uh a few years ago i became
um and this is gonna sound so culty but
i
i um i improved my quality of life and
health
with uh herbs and essential oils
long story short i was having like
non-stop allergy attacks
and they felt like flus right so they
would just completely knock me out
and after trying all western medicines
um i started like
just researching alternative methods of
feeling on my own
and in that process
i was looking for some oils some
essential oil
and i found a random website
of a of a
alleged let me speak carefully here
of an alleged cult at the time when i
ordered
i didn't think it was that i just
thought it was you know a place where
you can buy some oils when the oils
arrived
then i said hmm this is weird let me
look it up
so um yeah it's like the purple
something
it has it hasn't even a cult sounding
name wait but
what what about the arrival like did it
come with cultists where
like what about the i'm so confused i'm
envisioning an amazon
package with some bottles of essential
oils inside
oh no no no no it arrived in
i just threw it away so i don't have one
but it arrived in um
an empty recycled
battery package right and then they
filled the
clearly like they filled the oils from a
larger source
and put them in so very homemade looking
and then they taped around the battery
package
to reseal it and it was just the way it
was packaged and put together i was like
this is weird i didn't even use it
because i don't want to use something
that's not sealed
right when you say a battery package are
we talking like a
carton of duracell yes
yes there's like energizer paper bottom
oh yes yeah
yeah and now like recently i was
thinking about it i was like man that
would make a great documentary and
somebody's doing it
like at the time nobody was talking
about this place and then
somebody else discovered it as well and
wow they're trying to do a documentary
yeah
interesting so your allergies got better
with with herbs and stuff
oh yeah yeah like night and day
quality of life completely changed
i find myself being curious about what
worked for you but i don't know if
that's skirting tos
if you say something no be because it's
personal
okay so even like
i say that to my chat because i've
talked about this with them before like
this is what worked for me i'm not a
doctor i'm not an herbalist
i cannot tell you what to do for you you
can say that but i can't
because i'm a doctor okay so
there you go chat i said it
uh but i yeah i mean i'm you know you
don't have to tell me now but i'm always
looking for
solutions for allergies for like other
patients and a lot of what i recommend
to patients actually comes from
patients so someone will tell me like oh
like this actually worked for me and
then i'll do some research and i'll kind
of see like okay it's interesting
you know is there some data to support
it is there some evidence behind it and
if
if i get a strong personal
recommendation from a person
and then find some evidence that
supports it then sometimes i'll make a
recommendation to a future patient so
i'm really curious because i think
allergies are tend to be hard to kick
yeah and i'm not actually allergic to uh
like any food necessarily um
it's just like and they call
environmental allergies and rhinitis
like it's it could be a cigarette
somebody smoking a cigarette
and i start sneezing for 20 minutes
anyway did you want to talk about like
procrastination and parasocial
relationships are we just going
you know off the range and into cult
land i'm fine with either
yeah let me let me ask you about so
i just want to get your opinion on on
procrastination
okay because as i was saying earlier for
people that might have missed it
excuse me i've seen a lot of people
on social media that are really
influencers they're not
qualified professionals in any way talk
about procrastination and a common theme
that i keep hearing
is that you procrastinate because you're
afraid of success
what do you think about that i i think
that can apply to some people but it
absolutely does not apply to me why do
you think you procrastinate
and that is something that i
i probably have not asked myself enough
of i i really truly
i don't know it's just something and
it's something in my brain
that happens and i've
i set timers for myself i set alarms for
myself
and then i'll still find ways to
procrastinate okay
um can you tell me can you just give me
an example of something you're
procrastinating on
yes like uh i need to and it can be
really small things but
i need to create a list of
codes for instance um
for my stream and this is something that
one of my mods who also helps me with my
youtube
has been reminding me to do for means
i see okay so okay the one answer i do
have
is that i i think i'm overwhelmed a lot
so sometimes i don't know where to start
other times i i genuinely forget
i feel like i do so many different
things and i don't have a nine-to-five
desk job
i end up um
probably sort of burning myself out and
not
really taking a lot of down time so i'm
sort of always all over the place like
okay i gotta do this i gotta do this
and i don't keep lists as organized
as i probably should so i think that
those things contribute to me feeling
overwhelmed and not knowing where to
start with things
okay why are you overwhelmed
well hold on let me just think about
this before i ask you more questions
i'm trying to decide whether i should
just give you answers or ask you
questions
both
what makes you feel overwhelmed
oh where would we could be here all day
that's why i was thinking about the
question
so so
[Music]
here here's what i'd like to do sasha
but you let me know if you're okay with
this okay
one is um i think that there's stuff
that you're struggling with
um maybe not struggling is not the right
word there's there are things that you
deal with that sound
challenging to me but that conversation
is going to be more
personal in nature um it
i we may be closer to getting you to
open up a little bit
i just but you've said that you don't
potentially want to do that so i we
don't have to go there
uh i will for sure um give you like a
15 to 30 minute spiel on procrastination
that i'm like 80
confident will help you a lot okay
um and we can just do that at the end
because i think i've already i mean i
have a good sense of
what you're you know what's going on
here um yeah
and and you know it can also be helpful
for your like viewers and stuff because
we'll explain
you know like how procrastination for
example is an umbrella term
so it's like an emergent phenomenon
that's based on all kinds of different
different processes and so you'll get
like a particular
instagram person who will say like oh
it's caused by this no it's not caused
by that that's like
death is caused by cancer like yeah
that's true but it's also caused by all
kinds of other things
exactly right exactly so how do you
diagnose so like there are
you know three discrete kinds of
procrastination that i tend to like
diagnose and work with
i mean it's not really like a medical
diagnosis but like i've sort of seen
three routes to procrastination
that tends to help like 70 of people
and then there are additional buckets
which result in procrastination like
feeling overwhelmed
which just is just you just don't have
and we can kind of talk about that
principle i mean there's
a i think a discussion on
procrastination can be like a 12-hour
lecture
yeah where you go through neuroscience
and different circuits of the brain and
like
you know it all applies um but i mean
i'm kind of
finding a lot of uh curiosity about like
you know it being an uphill battle every
day you feeling overwhelmed but i just
want to make sure that you're
comfortable talking about that
and if you're not that's totally cool we
can just steer clear what do you think
yeah we can dig into it a little bit um
and then if i'm not comfortable you'll
probably realize that immediately
yep so i may just like now i'm going to
signal to you whether we're going to
talk about it or like i'll ask you for
permission okay
you know i'll probably check in with you
and if i see that maybe things are
becoming uncomfortable
then i will signal to you again
and then one thing that we need to be
really careful about
okay because there is the presenter that
may not want to disappoint people
so we have to be careful that that
person is not the one
answering the questions yes
and feel free to say that's not an
answer
okay so is that um is that perfect
okay so that works okay so let's be
careful because you're allowed to
disappoint us
yes okay and and another thing that
one of my mods just reminded me of as
well is that
um squirrel
i get distracted a lot
a lot that'll be part of the 30-minute
explanation
okay okay
yeah so tell me what i mean so it sounds
like you're overwhelmed by a lot of
stuff
yeah i mean i do like i said i do
so many different things
that it is really hard for me sometimes
to figure out
how how to prioritize things
okay what makes you do a lot of
different things
well it goes back to not having a
nine-to-five job so
constantly either trying to
create new content make sure i show up
to stream because that is
an obligation too you know as much as i
do enjoy it at the end of the day
um uh
people like to say that they stream just
for fun
and it is a job too
you know um so knowing that like i have
certain expectations that i have to meet
but then there's also things creatively
that
i would like to do and i would like to
fulfill um for myself
um and i've always been independent
like i've always been
self-sustained uh
i don't have like a team of a thousand
people or
20 people doing everything for me
right and i just report to them and show
up like i am hands-on
and now thankfully because of my stream
i do actually have a small team of
people that like help me with um
like social media and youtube stuff but
still like i feel like i'm
always
if it's not one thing it's another and
that's work life
that's not even personal life
okay so so
i want to understand when you so i'm
hearing that you have a lot of stuff on
your plate
yes so how does something wind up on
your plate to begin with
i put it there okay so let's understand
that
okay so this is not a problem of
prioritization
it's like here i am like at the buffet
i've got a plate full of food like i
don't know what to eat first
yeah so this is why people have trouble
with procrastination because they look
at the current situation and they ask
themselves
how do i fix this that's not where the
money is the question is how did you
wind up here in the first place
that's what you need to fix right right
right don't try to dig yourself out of
this hole because like
it's jumping in that's the problem it's
like you know okay so so you know
like let's just think about something
like what's something you know what how
do things end up on your plate
i think part of it is survival
so like some of it is just pure
economics i know that i
i don't have i don't have a thousand
things to fall back on
right okay meaning i don't have a
i don't have this and i i keep saying
nine to five job because it's easy
for me to sort of paint this like
picture and delineation
where i'm i don't have a salary to fall
back on right
so for me it's i always have to follow
and chase new i don't want to say trends
because that's so not me but
yes like trends and technology trends
and streaming and
trends and content because they change
so vastly so
like always catching up with those
things
because they are essential to what i do
to make a living
is overwhelming especially when you
don't have like i said
i don't have a team of a thousand people
doing things these things for me and
especially when
what happens if you don't stay on top of
trends i'm going to interrupt you from
time to time if that bothers you please
let me know
it's fine yeah that's fine uh
what happens when you don't say on
trends well i'm trying i guess this is
like speaking to me
personally
you've i mean it's it's sounds really
simple but like if you don't stay on top
of trends
then how is your content being seen by
people
and that's like again this is like a
very this is uh this is
a career thing this is the reason that
i'm going to interrupt you is because i
think your mind is operating at a level
that is way higher up than where we need
to be function
where we need to look at so like on a
given day
when you wake up in the morning and your
mind says
i need to keep up with what's going on
like you have some thought like that i
am assuming like what goes through your
head
like can we get like very microscopic
with like what's what's happening in
your head
can try um
the it's it's about how can i
how can i bring relevant
value to what i'm doing today and
right so if it's on stream for instance
because that's
my main focus right now
how do i make my streams better and
okay i or i do a lot of cooking on
stream too so like
what can i do uh
that people will will be interested in
um and then that's like okay well i know
that there's
these specific groups of people tend to
come in
in numbers so i know that i have to
focus on very specific things not always
the
exact thing that i want to do and it's
the same with games right like you're
always having to keep up with
there's a new game release and it
becomes sometimes like you want to
finish this other thing and that sounds
so so trivial but it's not
because things are relevant today and
then
by next friday they're no longer
relevant
okay so um but then there's also sorry
sorry to cut you off but then there's
also like just the over
like everything else happening in the
world right can you tell me about that
i with social media and with the amount
of information
that we have whether it's covid or
whether it's
and this is going to make me cry but
like damn
the injustices in our country that have
been happening
um the fact that it's like 20 21 and
we're still here
and sometimes feeling so helpless
that stuff becomes overwhelming and i'm
not even
the primary person affected by those
things
and then i feel guilty because i say ah
you shouldn't be crying you need to be
out there doing something
to help people and use your privileges
to help people
and that becomes overwhelming
okay so and so so sometimes yeah it's
like
you want to just the thing that you
depend on for a career is the same thing
that sometimes you want
to just completely ignore because
it's it's hard sometimes to keep those
balances
it's hard a lot of times can you help me
understand um
i understand you got emotional there for
a second
um i'm gonna go ahead and say
i didn't see that one coming so
[Laughter]
i was just confused by your your
statement about
and then there's all the other i was
like what other stuff you know i was
with you
sorry about that i'm not gonna ask you
more questions
about that right now if that's okay with
you that's great with me thank you
okay i hate crying in front of people
why
because it's weak son
um just because you put a funny voice on
it doesn't make it
i know that is part of it
and that's just like i i don't like to
uh
be vulnerable in front of people i just
don't
is does crying make you vulnerable
i think so okay that's what's important
what you think is
important
[Music]
sasha i'm getting some degree of like
desperation
driving what ends up on your plate like
i'm getting the sense that
it's sort of like survival of the
fittest and you sort of don't have a
backup plan
is that how it feels sometimes for sure
yeah and so do you think
that's that motivates you to put things
on your plate
absolutely okay
so this once again i'm going to give you
the option to opt into or opt out of
um and
you know whatever happens today sasha i
think if you're okay with it i may just
summarize some thoughts and dm you in
the event that you want to see a
therapist i think there are a lot of
things that you could talk about in a
private setting
like themes that maybe you could explore
with someone um yeah is it okay if i do
that
sure okay um
so yeah i mean
can we because i i think that a lot of
you know so if we
let me just share my thinking so you
feel overwhelmed by a lot of stuff
and i think a lot of that depends on
like how much stuff you're juggling now
there's actually like a cognitive and
even genetic
reason why you your mind functions the
way that it does
this is coming up for air by the way so
i'm gonna work very intellectually for a
second okay
we're gonna take the heat off of you and
we're gonna just talk about
procrastination okay
so um and then
so like basically like there's there's a
way that your mind works you have a
unique cognitive fingerprint which is
that you juggle a lot of balls
i guess that you get pretty excited
about stuff
um and what
sorry 12 12 year old sense of humor
sorry
okay so um you know i'd say that
that
okay i just caught up
nice
so i was about to say you have a lot of
balls in the air but you know
because i use this and out like they're
baked in at this point so you know
you're you're juggling a lot of uh
like you've got a lot of different
projects going on right and so
so there are people whose cognitive
fingerprint is like you get excited
about things very easily and it's like
oh like let's do this like this sounds
really cool like let me do this like
this sounds really cool like let me do
this and then um
so that's fine but i think that there's
actually more to it than that like
that's your cognitive fingerprint your
mind is always gonna excel
actually because i guess that you get
bored easily and you need like some
degree of variety
um but the the thing that i i really
think that we
can work on is like this idea that every
day is an uphill battle
because i suspect that some of that
sentiment
comes from actually like a lack of
security
about what's gonna happen for you
and and some of that lack of security
may actually
in an unhealthy way because like there's
like this panic of like
if i don't do this thing
then what could happen and so that
driving force is gonna get you to like
take as much as you can but then your
plate gets overwhelmed
absolutely so oddly enough i think if
you want to get out of this you have to
address the feeling of like i have to do
this or
you know it'll all come crumbling down
or
yes i agree i don't disagree with that
at all uh
but i will say actually
since i started streaming
my mods are going to laugh at me 100 but
since i started streaming i feel like
i've been a lot better
because although it's not a 9 to 5 job
it it
it's provided some structure a very
loose structure
because i can still you know
show up at any given time
so it's not like i have to be at a
specific place at the same time every
day but i do feel like it has given me
some structure but now
it's it's learning how to balance um
showing up and then also giving myself a
break
which is actually something i wanted to
ask you about as well
and somebody it's a question that um
somebody from our community had but i
felt like
i could really relate to is like when do
you know to take a break
what because i i'm taking a break and
what keeps you from taking a break and
like
and when is it okay to go back some
that's definitely something that i
struggle with
when is it okay to go back to work yeah
like when is it okay to take a break and
when is it okay to go back and
especially again i keep going back to
like this this world that is just so
different from a traditional job like
what that can be difficult this job
you you make your own rules
and that can sometimes work against you
and it can make it very difficult to
live like to have
you make your own rules so
sometimes we need outside perspective to
help us to help guide us
right this is something that i love
about collaborating is that when i
collaborate with people on things
it gives me another perspective and then
it can inspire me
to think differently about things what
rules do you make up for yourself sasha
i don't know if i'm i'm like i'm really
prepared to answer that because i feel
like i'm gonna
jump around that like i was about to say
something and then it just sounded
ridiculous but my rules are that i have
no rules
so sasha i i
i'm confused is your reluctance to
answer
because you're not happy with how the
presentation would go
no i just don't i actually don't think i
have an answer for that at the moment
like i would have
came to your head that was it that i
have no rules
like yeah i think that that's what
like when you said it's so hard to
create roles when you're
it's hard to set rules for yourself when
you're doing it on your own
yep it is
it's like for instance today we had a
meeting 10 30 is our
our co-stream no problem i'm there
like that's not a problem but if last
night i said to myself
i'm gonna end my stream at a reasonable
hour
and i'm gonna wake up and go hiking in
the morning
you better believe that that snooze
button is being hit
ten times and then i'm gonna go hiking
at night
yep so so who is the sasha
who is the sasha that that says to
herself
that i'm going to end my stream at a
reasonable hour and wake up at the
morning
can you tell me about her the one that
has to be responsible
to other people than just herself
i don't think no i think that's a
different one i know it sounds weird
so i think you're good at being
responsible to other people
yes i think you're bad at being
responsible towards yourself
yes that's what i mean sorry if i yeah
i may have misunderstood so but but tell
me about the one that tries to get you
to do stuff for yourself
like why does she say those things
it's that's a question that i'm asking
myself i really don't know
with that i truly do what what what's in
your head why would you say to yourself
that you want to end stream at a
reasonable hour
i'm that was like partly a joke but
because i can't just blame it on the
stream
but um
i'm saying that because i did say that
last night like bef when i ended my
stream i said okay like i could keep
going in theory
and keep playing this game but i know
that i need
to go to sleep so i can be on time
and be arrested right um
whereas like on fridays and saturdays
when i stream
i don't have to do that and as long as
like my mods are cool
and they're down to hang i can keep
going for another hour or two
and then i know that like okay tomorrow
i can sleep in a little bit
and then i'll just start my stream
excuse me a little bit later the next
day
and okay so
all right hmm
can you tell me what i'm gonna switch
gears on you for a second okay
can you tell me what feels like an
uphill battle
what feels like an uphill battle
i go back to like content creation
in general what i do
uh or at least like what i'm doing now
that can feel like an uphill battle
because
again it goes back to what we were
talking about earlier
how do you
how do you run a business because that's
what it is
but also stay true to yourself
knowing that there are a million
algorithms working against you
so that feels like an uphill battle a
lot like
me and my a couple of the my mods and
people that work with me on
my youtube stuff like we are constantly
analyzing these things
and talking about okay we'll have an
idea but we can't do that idea because
that means that it can't be monetized
and like i said you can hear a million
people say they
they stream for fun but at the end of
the day
it is still a business
so i think that constantly juggling like
what
what brings you
a spiritual fulfillment if you will that
makes you happy that
also what sucks is like
i know that there as we were talking
about earlier there are people that
there's that have a sense of trust with
me
so like there are things that we would
like to talk about that then we can't
talk
about so those things definitely become
frustrating
do you feel like um that that you're
further restricted by being shadow
banned
like does that does that like set you
yeah help yeah yeah absolutely
can you explain that to me please well
that's like
again that's something that i the me to
the you know
talking to the public is that i want to
be really clear about is
it's not um it's not an egotistical
bruise whatsoever
it's it's simply the fact that
i cannot continue
i can but not in the way that everybody
else can
i can't continue to create things
and have them be seen in the same way
that the average person can
so i'm hearing that you're held to a
different standard
absolutely and
and i brought that on myself for sure
but the internet is also what brought me
here
so there's this real duplicity right
like
they're in there seems to be so much
fake allyship
of every
every minority group
and i consider myself part of the lgbtq
community
i was a sex worker so
there seems to be all of this outside
visible support
for groups during certain times of the
year
but then if you actually try to have
these conversations
those same people that put up that
little flag on their website are
suppressing your voice
how does that feel
makes me angry
what are you angry about it makes me
angry that
people claim to stand for something and
then
the very things they claim to stand for
they suppress
okay i'm noticing emotions again
um so sasha i think that i
uh so i'm gonna if it's okay with you
i'm gonna state an actual preference
that i want to continue talking about
this because
this feels incredibly important to me
um and at the same time since there are
emotions we're gonna pause
and we're gonna see if you're okay with
it because like i think what you're
saying is like
really really important we're talking
about double standards we're talking
about
hypocrisy we're talking about um
you know like do we really want to be
accepting of people because that means i
know it sounds crazy
being accepting of people means that we
need to accept people
yeah funny right
and you know accepting people is
something that sounds
good but the truth is my experience as a
psychiatrist
accepting people is very hard it's not
pretty
yeah it requires it's not like a good
thing like accepting people is like
hard it's painful it requires
it's not like a you know black and white
sort of like oh like let's be accepting
like it sucks to accept
no no and i mean like
from from an outside view what's so
crazy
what's weird is like i can take
criticism from strangers i can take
criticism from
anonymous people on the internet
but that side of it is so frustrating
because i
like my whole motivation for getting in
the industry when i was in it was to
empower people part of it was catharsis
part of it was self-discovery but to
also empower people
and to feel like i have to
constantly guard and watch everything i
say and do
because then i can't keep sharing that
message
is is stressful
but then also like
at the end of the day going back to the
fact that it is a business
right so like how how are you supposed
to do the thing
not everybody gets to do the things they
love for work so i do try to ground
myself in that and remind myself like
okay i'm i'm lucky for
what i do have right and the things that
i can do
um like how do you continue that message
how do i continue that message
yeah dude this is like okay
i'm about to get frustrated with you is
that okay
okay i mean what can you say can you say
no
no because here's the thing sasha like
okay like there's the business right but
what i really hear
is that like there's there's like a real
you which is being muzzled by a business
you
and i'm not saying that that's unwise
because i'm hearing
that very clearly like you can't let
yourself out right because like you're
gonna be punished in a way that other
people won't
you're kind of like you've already got
two strikes against you and so you can't
afford to take that third strike and i
i completely get that um
at the same time there's a part of me
that's like a little bit
i don't think that that's who you were
meant to be
right so i i think like look when i
think about what is your contribution to
this
world i think your contribution to this
world feels
very strongly to me to be like those
conversations actually that you're not
allowed to have
now i'm not saying that you should go
and have them but i think that there's
like something to be said for the fact
that like you're considering these
conversations i think you
you know you clearly are a thoughtful
person and like if we really
think about like what do people need
i suspect what people need i mean hell
we started this whole
this conversation with like me having
conversations that people thought were
unacceptable
right so that may be but i mean i've
seen immense value to having
conversations that people
haven't had before or people think that
is a little bit like out of line
and i'm not saying you should go by that
i mean just out of line
like like so talking with people about
their personal feelings
in a very authentic way on the internet
with thousands of people watching is a
big no-no
you know i spoke with my colleagues and
i was like what do you guys think about
this some of them said it was a bad idea
some of them said it was important you
know they gave me a lot of good advice
and like
helped me like understand a lot of the
ethics of like how can we protect people
like
for example sometimes we'll have
conversations with people before they
come on stream
where they're allowed to say i don't
want to talk about this i don't want to
talk about this i don't want to talk
about this
so that you know they're not put in a
position and we kind of steer away like
there are a lot of things that we do
to make this a safer experience yeah and
at the same time i think the
conversation is important to have
now what i'm hearing is that you're
paranoid about being canceled which i
think probably makes sense is that fair
to say
uh not canceled in the
not my version of cancelled i mean not
in how i interpret cancel
like it's just a simple fact that for
instance
um i'll just tell you like straight up
like the other day i was talking
to a couple of my online friends
that helped me with my youtube stuff
about wanting to start
a new um i don't know what yet right
like
either something in a written form like
a blog or a video series
or um somebody mentioned like a podcast
right
that has to do with like sexual health
and wellness
and having conversations
um with like guests or just giving my
own
feedback and telling my own stories um
but then the first thing is like well
how are people going to hear about it
how are people going to listen to it
because
anything that has to do with that even
if it's in a
with sexual subject matter
automatically is
on every social media platform
completely
suppressed to the bottom
so how do how do i continue something
new if i c if i can't even approach it
uh and have people be aware of its
existence
how does it feel to be in that situation
again frustrating makes me angry for
sure
because then you see
here we go here's something that i think
everybody uh everybody can relate to
because then you see
other people that um
they magically come out of nowhere
because they have a
foundation that started elsewhere
and then they can start talking about
these things and they can take that risk
because they already have this other
foundation to fall back on
why don't you that's exactly okay so now
there's a theme right so
like what makes it so
what makes i do feel like i have a
foundation it's not that i don't
it's just that it's one that is not um
these days
i like i have to compare it to like when
i first
i've been in the public eye since i was
18 right so the internet and technology
has changed so much
it used to be a lot easier to
discover different people or discover
people like you or discover people that
shared your same
interests and talk about those things
so that a lot of those tools have sort
of been stripped by the way
the internet and social media works now
i'm sorry can you say that i'm just
noticing that i i think maybe there's
something
i should be understanding or knowing
sorry
like but it goes back to just um like
shadow banning right like there's just
certain subjects
that can't be discussed on the internet
okay or if you do
they're not um they're not monetizable
so like i can't sit here and say i have
this great idea in this passion project
and and then stop streaming you know a
few days a week
and put time into that
how does it feel because then it's like
it's like a pe it then becomes a passion
project essentially
so so can we talk about these other
people who are able to like
break into the scene and sort of am i
hearing you kind of say that they're
able to have the conversations and kind
of it's easier for them to make the
content because they don't have
the handicap that you have for lack of a
better term
yeah but that was a little that was a
little probably superficial but like
yes i have seen people um
that are are
regular let's say like regular
influencers
that aren't so much from the streaming
side of things um
that then go off and decide that they're
going to have an authority on a subject
like this i have seen that it's not all
the time but i think that's everybody
right like we all go on our phones
because we're all bombarded by social
media and we say oh why can't i have
that
like we're all guilty of that
but that specific area yes it's
frustrating to see
that sometimes people can do that yeah
you're doing something very sneaky here
which is that when you have an authentic
feeling
you actually devalue it very quickly by
generalizing it
okay so like let's just follow along
like you said that like so you have a
particular background you have a
particular experience that arguably
makes you an authority
you also have something that you're kind
of passionate about and
um sorry
just i have to be careful about what
colloquialisms
i use yes
i'm sorry i think i understand a little
bit about
um i i think oh wow i just had a
revelation
i can't no wonder you it's so [ __ ]
exhausting
um because what i was going to say is is
i was going to use the phrase put your
money where your mouth is um
but and then it occurred to me that like
well you just did yeah and and then like
i noticed myself filtering
and then i was just thinking about like
oh like i'm filtering this much now like
what must it be like for you to filter
because you've got a filter way more
than i do i imagine
yeah with that kind of stuff though like
i laugh at you know like we
we're very open to make jokes about that
kind of stuff because you can right like
they're innuendos
like innuendos you can get away with so
much more it's like cartoons
yeah and at the same
but anyway kind of going back to like
like i think i'm hearing you sort of
say a couple of things sasha and i'm
hearing you kind of just skirt the edge
and then pull away
so i don't know if that's sort of like a
boundary issue but i'm going to just
share it like because i i think that
what i'm hearing is that you're
passionate about something there are
some issues that are important to you i
think you
sort of have you've kind of grown into
this role of content creator and you
think that like you can kind of combine
your platform with like
issues that are important to you and
that one of those topics could be
something like
sexual health um and that
you know when you when we kind of own
that a little bit like you also say oh
but it's social media and everyone sees
things that people like you know like oh
i wish i could be doing this
and so you got to be a little bit
careful there i wouldn't devalue
yourself because
if what i'm also hearing is is
you know are there a bunch of uneducated
people who are pretending to be experts
in domains that you feel like you're
qualified to give like
good guidance on
yes yes
something you said there was like
bringing something up and
i lost my train of thought again i got
distracted but
i'm trying to bring it back i bet you if
i went another remote remember it
um
let me try to say it again yeah maybe
that will help so so you were talking
about
you know how there are people like who
will
so you have certain things that you're
passionate about you have some some
things that you're interested in you're
a content creator maybe that you can
combine those two
you think about maybe like starting a
podcast or something
and you're not able to or it's
challenging for you to do so because of
some of the shadow banning etc and then
other rand yeah go for it so it's
um i don't like to wallow in my own
self-pity
so yeah like i probably do downplay it
yep
because i don't want to be that person
that becomes fixated on things because
i've seen people like that and i've met
people like that and they're
impossible to be around so now i'm very
careful because i never want to become
that person
and i think social media is overwhelming
for all of us
sasha when did you stop wallowing in
your self-pity
i was 15
13 14 15 something like that can you
tell me about that
uh for sure a lot of it this is one of
the places where you may want to say no
no no it's totally fine um
it's just how i was raised
and i like that though i like that
because it
i don't feel like i was um
i wasn't given like these concessions
that because you're a girl
you should be treated differently it was
like okay pick yourself up
you're done crying
take a deep breath life happens
move on suck it up and move [ __ ] it up
and i and i think that's
you know
i like that personally it doesn't work
on everybody
for sure you know but
um i think life has enough life throws
enough curveballs at you
that like there are going to be times
where you can't control it
so as much as you can it's a good thing
to be able to say okay
let's move on why do you have to be so
strong
that's a great question
damn you're good
i knew i liked you but i was damn
the real like really truly
i come from a neighborhood where you
have to be strong like there are there
are no options
i know that like that i can give you a
very black and white concrete answer on
i'd love to hear about that if you feel
okay talking about it but
um i mean
i don't want to talk about it too in
depth but um
yeah i come from a super disenfranchised
neighborhood
i think i'll leave it at the fact that
like
everyone i grew up with it sounds like a
movie but like
not everyone but a lot of the people i
grew up with are either
in prison
or dead or
spun out
so that's why i'm strong not why i feel
like i have to be strong that's why i
know i'm strong
and that i can like confidently say
without
backtracking on it
how do you deal with other people being
sympathetic towards you
if i were to say something like you know
i feel sad that you had to grow up in
those circumstances
how would you
i don't like it i don't like it unless i
know that they come from
a similar situation what do you dislike
about it
my immediate answer my head was that i
don't like pity
i don't need your [ __ ] pity i don't i
don't want your [ __ ] pity i don't
i really don't because i
uh like
i've made it this far
i don't need pity i really don't i have
a
very small but important
number of people in my life that i will
lean on
i respect you a lot
thanks how do you feel about respect
from other people
that doesn't bother me so much you
see this is why they call me like the
the uncle thing is starting to
come out here too i think
i like a lot of feelings i have when i
look at them i say like
i feel like a lot of very valuable
things i learned
for the way that i was taught
um
is usually something that happens with
boys
what does that mean
like i would it goes back to
the pity thing like never
i don't know i just i feel like some of
the really important conversations that
i had with my
the figures in my life
um so i'm crying because i'm thinking
about my dad
who passed away um
you know like i mean it was told to me
like you don't have to be treated
differently because you're a girl
but also like some of these some of
these things that were instilled in me
i mean i know i know that like other
these things weren't being told to other
kids or to other girls
specifically how do you feel about being
treated differently
i'm so fortunate
i felt lucky how did you feel back then
lucky because it was um
my womb you know it was my my rock
i felt protected by it i felt special
and i'm saying that funny because you in
a funny way because you
asked that earlier but
i'm just kind of thinking a little bit
about you know a 13 year old or 14 year
old girl
and who's treated a little bit more like
a boy and sees that
she's not treated like a girl and i can
understand
how that's made you into the strong
and capable person that you are today
and i can also imagine that you know at
the age of 14
that can be annoying and that there can
be a wanting to be
like everyone else yeah
for sure
i'm also kind of noticing a theme of
like you know there's
you and then there's everyone else like
it doesn't sound
because when we were talking about you
know content creators and what they can
get away with and what you can get away
with and being shadow banned and
i mean there's a very real reality
sounds stupid to say but there's a
there's a you know there's a very real
situation in that you are
different right your circumstances
you're different the standards against
which you're measured
is different and i can see that you've
sort of like risen to the challenge and
you've
you've faced it head-on and
you know and at the same time like
i'm wondering like what happened to that
14 year old who just wanted to be a
little bit
more normal
i don't really see it that way how do
you see it
i i say those things but i like both of
i don't know this is interesting because
now han i'm going to backtrack because
some of my closest friends always told
me i was weird
maybe there is something there that like
you know
i noticed recently probably because i
have been
very disciplined um throughout the
pandemic of like
not doing anything and not being social
except
like two little bubbles um
so i noticed when i'm just at the
grocery store checking out somewhere
like i am awkward sometimes
yeah but that's maybe a whole different
conversation
but i don't know i i feel like i was i
feel like that's
minimal because i still feel like i was
pretty
okay do you sometimes wish your life was
different
no help me understand that a little bit
because for as difficult as as difficult
as
thriving can be in a business context
i wouldn't want it any other way because
i did know from a young age that
i didn't want a nine-to-five job
so as difficult as it can be i
i find that i do tend to thrive in chaos
and i do tend to thrive with um you know
working in defense can it become
exhausting
yeah what does that mean worth it in
your defense
that there's something always pushing
against you
right
so can it can definitely become
exhausting
sure and that's probably why i can tend
to feel overwhelmed
for sure
but i wouldn't i wouldn't change it
can i think for a second yeah
can i can i go to the bathroom yeah sure
yeah
i'm gonna get some water too i'll be
right back
do we be respectful or do we be helpful
i think we're going to have to go with
the respectful
blue i got cold all right um
so i i think uh sasha i was debating
about you know whether to take this
further i'm leaning against it
um so i i know you've been willing at
every step of the way to sort of like
i've asked a couple times for permission
you seem to be like
going for it and and i appreciate that
but
i have a feeling that if i keep on
asking you questions you're gonna end up
in a place that may be helpful to you
but i'm
not sure you'll be entirely happy with
it
okay um
i i i want to like so the direction of
that those questions have to do with
like
so here's what i see okay
you are a force of nature
right not a cult leader um
maybe one day and and i i
what i'm hearing in in your story is a
lot of triumph
um but also a healthy amount of
adversity
and even today i'm hearing like a lot of
challenges that you face and you kind of
like
are your best self when you were you
know when
when your chips are down like you know
you're good at playing on defense you're
a survivor you're not just a survivor
you like thrive
in adverse circumstances like um you
know just think about what you said that
like most of the people that you grew up
with are in prison or
are dead like and and here you are you
become
you know a force to be reckoned with
and so i i see a lot of strength and
there's a lot there to respect
and i think the challenge is that you've
become
strong it's part of who you are it's
part of your identity
but i think something was lost somewhere
along the way
like in that you know like
in you becoming a titan you had to kind
of like grow up
for lack of a better term yeah yeah
and and so there's a part of me that
does feel some degree of like empathic
sadness which i know like really
rubs you the wrong way um
and there's a part of me that says that
like ultimately i i think that
what i see as a way forward for you is
like
being able to accept people's compassion
a little bit
more
you know and i know you hate it
and and this can kind of tie to things
like so i'm not going to give you more
compassion because i think it would be
really hard for you to handle
um
but you know you can look at your story
as a story of triumph but i think it's
also like a little bit dishonest to just
look at it as a story of triumph
that there's a lot of hurt a lot of
unfortunate stuff
a lot of things that
you know i would hope that one day
you're able to regret some of your
decisions
you know i know it sounds kind of weird
but like i don't think that anyone
there's things i regret oh okay
don't get me wrong okay don't get me
wrong
probably not the not like the most
obvious ones that people would assume
but there are things i definitely regret
just not uh
let's say like not from um
like to be clear as day not from my
choice
in getting into the adult industry like
i want to be clear as days
about that because people assume all
sorts of stuff so
not about that but about a lot of other
things yeah i wasn't necessarily
referring to anything in particular
i didn't think you were either but i for
for the
for the lurkers to know so sometimes i
think that people who
you know live lives of strength
that a part of that strength requires
you to like
have no regrets yeah like
like and and i i think that ultimately
like being a
truly like authentic person like we're
all human we all screw up we all make
mistakes
um and i think regret is actually like
the avoidance of regret i think actually
leads to some amount of toxicity
um well you can't grow i don't think
yeah it's like you know we learn
hopefully learn from our mistakes
i i also think that you know if things
are
unfair for you are we allowed to
feel for you there or no
yeah yeah of course like i wouldn't
what would i what would i say to that
you know
i'm sorry you're in the situation you're
in oh
thank you how does that feel for you
because i have a certain level of trust
with you already
um that's
that doesn't bother me as much as it
would coming from
i mean i know we don't know each other
in real life but like we have
briefly talked in different situations
before today so like
it doesn't bother me as much as that
coming from
a total stranger or a friend of a friend
i'm gonna try to qualify that statement
a little bit more you let me know how it
feels okay
so sasha i think it sounds really tough
to be like
so you've made some choices and and i
think you
i'm happy to hear that you kind of don't
regret them let that you've lived this
life
that has had some challenges and you
become the person that you are and the
person that you are
is analytical capable entrepreneurial
dedicated um that you're trying to make
the world a better place and i think it
really
sucks that you're being held to
somewhat of an unfair standard that
people who talk real big about
supporting people and accepting people
actually like
secretly punish you for particular
things
and it sounds like really really hard
and unfair to be
you know in the position you're in and
i'm also a little bit afraid
of
um i'm a little bit afraid that despite
the fact that you've come this far
that some of the things that you deal
with may actually be like insurmountable
at some point
that you may not be able to walk this
tight rope because it seems to me like
you're balancing very carefully
and so there's a part of me that's
afraid that since the tightrope that
you're walking is so damn thin and so
damn high
that like you know i have faith in you
and at the same time i'm also terrified
for you
i mean i guess i could say that i'm i'm
like fortunate that i don't feel alone
in this
that's important you always have to talk
about
what you have to be grateful for for
sure
can you talk about the other stuff
what what other what do you mean by that
what are you feeling right now
i just think about like
walking a tightrope is an interesting
way to put it for sure
um but like
i'm i i say i'm glad i'm not alone in
that because i couldn't do it on
my on my own while i might like do
the business side of things and i and i
feel like i put all these things on my
plate
i do have the support i need and i know
that i'm not alone
in experiencing these things as well
i know that there are other people i
might not know them but i know they
exist
so i have to keep that perspective
to stay strong
yeah i don't think you need to stay
strong
sorry i'm laughing because somebody said
she i glanced over somebody said
she's not alone she's the coolest
yeah not a cult not a cult
not yet
one day uh once you have a compound
right compound you have to call it that
welcome to the compound castle gray
school um
yeah no um
and i and i think the this would
actually be an interesting
or a good moment rather to bring up um
parasocial relationships
if you have time for that sure let's
bring it up because
it's something that um like we've
touched on
on stream before
and i think it's something that we're
all
as a society still learning about and
how to deal with it
and
it's you get her a guitar too it's um
like we talk i talk about all these
the uphill battles right the defense and
thriving but then there is also this
great community
that i have and that a lot of people
have on on their streams as well
um so it's interesting to me because i
feel like
even though there's a few core people
and i'm not talking so much about the
chat necessarily but like
my mods and the people that helped me
behind the scenes
like we have truly built something
special that
until today throughout like all of
social media
all my experience on it has not existed
so that's interesting to me um
and i'd kind of like to get your
perspectives on on that but also just
like this relationship that
i have with my community and what you
think would be the best way
like if we see problems how to deal with
them because i feel like actually
like my mods and i we do sort of
walk this tight rope with how to treat
people
because we do have to be sensitive and
sometimes people overstep boundaries
where it's very clear you know what to
do and you know what needs to be done
in other times
this it's more difficult to deal with
can you give me an example um
[Music]
people in the past
have overstepped
boundaries that we've laid out as a
community
[Music]
um
in ways that can become really scary and
frightening because it tells me that
maybe i'm doing something wrong that i'm
not
delivering a clear enough message that
like
while i do look forward to seeing people
and a lot of
people that are in almost every single
one of my stream
a majority of those people respect the
boundaries
and sometimes
it's almost like an unspoken like
sometimes those boundaries feel like an
unspoken
um they feel unspoken you know like we
we know what to expect the majority of
people know what to expect
and every so often there are people that
that don't know but then of course like
we have the mods that they do make it
clear like
to not do certain things right whether
it's on twitch or on
on discord after the fact but um
i get i don't know if it's so much of a
purse
like for me specifically but as a whole
like where do you see this going as a
society like
how do we so how do we send a positive
message but also like know when to cut
it off
so sasha can you define for me what a
parasocial relationship
is yes um
in the case of i'll give myself as an
example here
i'm here i represent something to the
people
that watch my streams
but the relationship is not reciprocated
in a way that our irl relationship would
be
right like i am not friends with these
people in real life
i am friendly with them but i don't
actually know them
um
and so what what i'm hearing is that it
has some of the attributes
of a real-life relationship but
by virtue of it being an online
relationship there's something like you
know it doesn't translate a hundred
percent
so yeah exactly you know you can start
to appreciate other people
interact with them they have their own
personalities some of them are trolls
some of them are funny some of them are
compassionate
and so you can communicate with them you
can interact with them you can form some
kind of relationship with them
but it's not it doesn't come with
everything
that a real social relationship comes
with yeah i i shouldn't even say real
social because i think it's just a
different kind of
an in-person social relationship and
that there are some
most people tend to sort of understand
that there are some unspoken boundaries
but that some people really don't
understand those boundaries
so this is where we've talked with
several streamers about parasocial
relationships and i have some thoughts
but i think what's really missing from
this conversation is what we really need
to do is get
i don't know if this is you know tos
friendly but like
i think the the if we really want to
understand parasocial relationships we
have to understand the other side of the
story too
so this is where like you know i think
that like
understanding what is in the mind of
someone who does not respect a boundary
is very important like that's the
missing part of the equation for me
right so like like and this is where i
think we've had
you know some we've had some people on
stream that have
certainly posted on our subreddit and
stuff about like you know
feeling lonely and and giving lots of
money to particular content creators
in the hopes that um you know it'll
it'll they're looking to fill some kind
of void or connection
and and so so we we have some experience
with this but i think that's just an
important part of the equation
um but let me ask you i mean what do you
think is gonna happen
like what do you what do you think
i don't know i mean
like i said i i tried
removing try i do my best to
be clear about these things on stream we
create
commands uh that like guests can use and
that moderators can use but that's only
in my i can only control what
or you know try to control or observe
and and
cultivate the community that i have not
other people's
um so i think
i think twitch is cool because we have
all these tools at our disposal so
um it makes it a lot cleaner
and makes the rules um
you know the rules are there they're up
front
we're not hiding things from people um
but you go on other forms of social
media and a lot of people don't do that
and or it's impossible because those
tools don't exist on other forms of
social media
um
yeah it's it's i i guess a question too
i have is just like
am i doing enough to make those things
clear i i don't know i don't know what
you're should it
should we
just look let me yeah let me take a stab
at this okay so can i just share like
some thoughts about how i understand
parasocial relationships
and what we need to do about it so like
the first thing is that i think that
from a neuroscience perspective there's
a reason why these things are happening
so as human beings we tend to like
associate
things with other things i know it
sounds like such a simple
sentence but you know so for example
um you know a classic thing that we'll
kind of get into is like
being friend zoned or [ __ ] zoned right
where like
there'll be and it's usually like a dude
who gets friend-zoned i'd say like most
of the cases i hear about
tend to be with men and i think there's
actually like a a neuroscientific and
like
developmental reason for that i don't i
don't think it's it's not the y
chromosome it's more that
you know men tend to be socialized to
expect emotional intimacy and only is
a very small number of cases so
emotional
intimacy is okay with mom usually
not even okay with sisters not okay with
brothers oftentimes not okay with dad
maybe like emotional intimacy is okay
with grandma
and then like romantic partners so those
are the people
with whom i'm allowed to feel social
like we're like coded that way we're
programmed yeah
and so oftentimes what happens is is if
you look at
you know i may i'm not trying to offend
anyone it's just general anecdotal
observations and a little bit of data to
back this up but frankly not very much
i think the way that um you know girls
are raised or were
raised was different right so there's
more emotional intimacy within
friendships there
and so then you get into this situation
where like i you know
working with the people that i have what
i've noticed is that
emotional intimacy between a man and a
woman in their early 20s
means different things yeah so for the
woman it's like completely acceptable to
have a friend that you emotionally
confide in
and for a dude it can be really
confusing because they're they're kind
of like
it's they're under the impression
whether it's correct or incorrect or
programmed or genetic i have no idea
but somewhere along the way they have
this programming in their mind that if
i'm emotionally intimate with someone
that also comes with feelings of romance
and sex
and so there's kind of like a
communication breakdown here
a breakdown of expectations and i think
something similar happens in parasocial
relationships
so what happens is our brains are wired
to associate
certain things with other things like
for example
a hundred years ago if i had an inside
joke with someone
what other things would i have with them
the short answer is a lot right because
an inside joke is
only possible when there are other like
check marks of a relationship that have
developed like i have to see them for a
while
i have to be to a certain degree like
vulnerable like we have to have like
some kind of common cause or like
you know like inside jokes come with a
certain
if you think about when do you unlock
the inside joke in a relationship
you unlock it like after you're at a
high level of friendship
yeah you know and and it reminds me this
like funny quote from the office where
where michael scott i don't know if
you've watched the office and he kind of
talks about the
inside jokes and he's like i've always
wanted to be a part of one
you know and and it's kind of like this
this idea that like an inside joke
comes with other stuff yeah we sort of
programmed that way and so enter twitch
chat
where like now we have inside jokes but
it doesn't seem to be coming with the
other stuff
yes and so i think people start to get
like kind of
i don't know if confused is the right
word but there's like kind of like a
programming does not compute error
because usually when i have an
inside joke with them it also means that
like i'm allowed to text them at any
hour of the day
right right like there are certain
associations that come
and so i think what happens with social
media is that like we're finding ways to
like short-circuit some of our
programming
or like hijack actually hijack is a
maybe a better word
hijack some of our programming and
certainly video games do do this
neuroscientifically where like
if we think about the drive for
achievement so we have this thing called
um the intent to mastery
which is a very very simple hard wired
core of your brain kind of thing which
is like if i have a
six month or four month old and i hand
them a ball
they will try to hold it and if they
drop it
what do they do
any idea huh cry right
sure the answer i was looking for well
that's a fair one
the answer that i was looking for is
they pick it up right so like
like if a kid stumbles like they're
gonna like everyone learns how to walk
right like no one
no one like gives up on learning how to
walk if you think about it it's like
really really hard you fall
over and over and over again so like we
have this
hard-wired part of our mind that's like
i want to get better at this
i need to get better at this and i have
to become a master
and then if you look at video games what
video games have done is like let's give
people like
achievements that they can grind for a
decade
and it kind of taps into that
neuroscience circuit of like wanting to
master something
which if we didn't have this part of our
brain like we wouldn't learn how to walk
yeah right and and so in the parasocial
way i think we have a similar
hijacking going on where like now you
have some degrees of intimacy like now
sasha like there are people watching at
home
that despite you know all of our best
efforts and i probably i mean honestly
sometimes you caught me off guard i
really can't blame myself but sometimes
i had a feeling
i knew what was gonna happen if i asked
you a question
and so they've seen a vulnerable part of
you and so what's that gonna trigger
in their mind right like normally like
when do i get to see
someone bear their vulnerable self it
comes at a certain tier of relationship
and so now like in some brands out there
we've unlocked that reward but the
underlying foundation of the
relationship is not there
and that's what gets confusing for
people because at this point they feel
like they know you
sasha yeah they know you so well
and they're not exactly wrong right
because they do know
some things about you and there's a lot
of authenticity and i think part of what
makes you like a successful content
creator
a successful personality is sure you've
got a mask but i think you know how to
let enough of the authenticity bleed
through
right i don't think you have to pretend
to have fun like i think you genuinely
enjoy doing some right things that you
do and there's like
there's like a calculated authenticity
there and so when people
see that calculated authenticity it's
still an authentic there's an
authenticity there's an
intimacy to it and then that triggers
like
certain neurological or like
sociological like programming
and then some people are able to
navigate that
activation of that programming pretty
well and they know how to respect a
boundary
and some people get a little bit more
confused yeah and i think that's why
parasocial relationships happen
and and it's interesting because you you
know there is a certain like connection
to your community even that you feel
right like oh
100 right so so like if we think about
you know why is that happening it's
because the same thing is happening in
your mind that when you're vulnerable
and everyone sends hearts you know in
the chat
and then it's like there's a certain
part of you that feels like
accepted appreciated loved you know
and then like it's sort of like like and
then
there are some streamers who
let the confusion get the better of them
and there are some streamers who
maintain boundaries
right yeah and then like there are some
streamers and then we had um
i think we had someone on
like over a year ago who was like a mod
in someone's community and then the
person got really big
and then they felt like they were owed
more
and like felt like they got abandoned
and left behind and all
they sacrificed a lot to like you know
bring this person like
help this person succeed and then they
felt like they were discarded afterward
and things like that
um so i think there are some streamers
that you know will
muddy that boundary a little bit like
i'm still confused about
what happens when
like do you ever like what happens when
you see people from your
chat at twitchcon you know i've actually
never been to twitchcon
either have i so i don't know but i've
been to other
you know i've i dj well pandemic i
haven't dj in a long time but i dj
but there's a different boundary there
too because most of the time
i'm on a stage you know i'm separa i'm
physically separated
but then sometimes it's like the club
asks you to do um
like autographs afterwards you know or
take some pictures
um so even then that feels boundary to
me right because it's sort of like
you're there as a dj but like i i don't
i don't know like what would happen you
know if you run into someone on the
street
and uh i'm
like it depends how people approach me
really okay i have a
i'm pretty sensitive to things so like
if if they feel
safe to me and they're respectful
i'm pretty open but like if i'm
talking to somebody and eating
a pasta or eating a taco and this has
happened and you put a camera in my face
like that's you know that
that's not okay yeah of course
but if you like if you're respectful in
your approach it's it changes my
attitude for sure um
so so just going back to the parasocial
relationship i think it like it comes
down to like the fact that this
relationship checks some of the boxes
from a normal relationship and i even
hesitate to
to because you asked me the question
what's going to happen i hesitate to use
the word normal because i think what
we're gonna
what we're gonna discover is like you
know back in the day there was like
marriage
and then there was like people getting
engaged and then you have a girlfriend
and so like
like you know in india the concept of a
girlfriend was
is not it wasn't existent
yeah like i remember telling my mom so i
hid my girlfriend from my mom for years
and then like telling her like oh yeah
she's my girlfriend and she was like
she's your friend and i'm like no she's
my girlfriend and she's like
does that mean that you're getting
married and i was like
no and then she was like wait i'm
confused
what's the point of having a girlfriend
if you're not gonna get married
yeah and it was just like it's like a
new construction that is not like did
not exist
before right and she was just like so
confused because she's like
there are friendships and there are
marriages and there's nothing in between
yeah and so now what's happening is
there's like a real life relationship
and there's a parasocial relationship
and i think both of those are going to
become
like new versions of stuff right now
there are open relationships and friends
with benefits and there are
so many different things that like like
if you think about friends with benefits
that's an example of like
it used to be that sexual activity came
with certain stuff
and now people have evolved to say that
okay we can have
sexual activity without the other stuff
you can have friendship and sexual
activity
and so i my sense is that the parasocial
relationship is
has already become a thing and it will
continue to become a thing
and and even as social media gets more
sophisticated it will become more of a
thing because i think what social media
platforms are discovering
is that the the stronger the parasocial
relationship
probably the higher the user engagement
well it's yeah it's interesting these
things like you said these things have
always existed it's the same with like
i mean going to see somebody at a
concert right
yeah i mean there's this thing still
does exist
but with social media and specifically
with a live
interaction it totally changes the game
yeah so i think i think the
the sorry to cut cut you off there but i
just wanted to like
completely echo your point because i
think that if you think about the brain
right like if i
you know if i'm a huge fan of like pearl
jam
and and like i can listen to this dude's
music and i can feel really connected to
them like
there is there's only so much stuff in
my brain
that gets checked yeah and then like if
i see him at a concert then like more
stuff gets checked and just like you
said with live interaction like
what someone can do sasha is they can
talk to you and you will respond to them
yeah right and when someone when someone
comes and talks to you
on a regular basis and you respond to
them
and you guys joke together and then like
you
come on our stream and you share some
stuff and now they
know you more and they feel like they
really know you like they're like it's
they're not wrong right like they're
they're checking these boxes
of a relationship consistency inside
jokes
laughing together having a good time
together being there
remember when dot dot dot remember that
time
and then like if you think about what's
a real relationship like those are all
of the check boxes
so i think it's going to get in a sense
quote unquote worse
but i think that parasocial because
people are going to figure out how to
have like more interaction
right like we're going to figure out how
to you know we're going to have like
more inside jokes and we're going to
have like
like emotes and we're going to have more
stuff that can be like this is because
like i think a big part of the
parasocial relationship is
it's ours sasha it's not yours it's it's
not mine it's ours
i like that too yep like i do get
something out of that
it does make me happy and like i find
myself
telling my irl friends and family
things that happen on stream all the
time like it does become
a sure very important part of my life so
now we begin to see that there is
actually some degree of reciprocity
right that it's not just one way that
like they're making you
laugh and you're making them laugh yeah
that when they're having a bad day
diogray shows up and when you're having
a bad day maybe the more observant
members of your chat notice and they
send you some
support and there's like absolutely a
reciprocity
yeah now as to what to do about it
i think also because sorry to cut you
off but i don't want to forget like
i i see people or
not just on twitch but um on other
platforms as well like call people their
besties
or call them um
or or like say i love you
yeah you mean the creators or the
yeah yeah yeah the creators saying that
to their community
i mean they're like again there are a
few people that i've actually
become internet friends with that i do
love like i have love for them even
though i've never met them
but then there's the actual chat side of
things that
that in my opinion becomes so dangerous
what's dangerous about it i think it
sets
it it's
it's raw it feels wrong on so many
levels
what feels wrong about it
i'm probably speaking i mean it makes me
think of just my own experiences like
i've dealt with
real stalkers irl and cyber stalkers
so i know what being online
what the territory is you know what
comes with being online
and that is one of the very negative
side effects of it
or hopefully not for everybody but it
can be a very negative side effect
and i feel like that kind of
sometimes there feels like this
overabundance of um
fake positivity and i see it a lot and
also in people that like
we're gonna manifest this and while
that's all great you also have to
remember like that
life throws things at us and we have to
be prepared to deal with those things
when we
when we don't get what we manifested
right and i feel like
setting up a community by telling them
that you love them
and then that and that they are your
best
friends i think it's unfair to those
people
but it's well i i think the real
challenge there is that for some
streamers they
really do feel that way
right so i think that a lot of streamers
are lonely
and that some of the best connections
that they do feel
are like with their chat yeah
and i think that there's a lot of
because you know i'm not trying to
i recognize i'm sort of disagreeing i
agree that it's unhealthy but
but i think that like we have to
understand that
real-life relationships are complicated
and part of what's happening
and and part of what's nice about like
you know these relationships that you
have with people online is it's like
it it can be so much more simple
yeah much cleaner so much more fun
[Laughter]
yeah none of the baggage you're right
it's like i'm gonna we're just gonna
hang out and chat we're gonna be vibing
and then there's something
in your brain that's like why would i
want to hang out with real people who
are just so
filled with drama when i can just be
vibing with twitch chat and that's just
like
i feel it i absolutely feel it right
yeah
so yeah i think our brain gets confused
yeah or that the signals mean different
things now
right and and it's hard because like if
you really think about it i mean a lot
of like you know a lot of
online support can be so
um i mean i i see this a lot
i i suspect that a lot of that streaming
actually
cultivates almost a particular kind of
like mental illness called borderline
personality disorder
where like like this is uh this is a
kind of
illness where i mean it's not it's an
illness we call it that but
it's something where like your sense of
worth is determined by the way that
you're treated that's basically the way
that i kind of think about it
and so i think that when our brains are
exposed to
a lot of judgment that's how people sort
of get borderline personality disorder
they sort of like get traumatized or
abandoned early in life
and then i think like essentially what
the internet does is like cultivates
that same kind of growth
because we get exposed to so much
judgment and the interesting thing is
that if you have that vulnerability
a lot of times people with bpd feel
really good about themselves when people
treat them well
and so now you suddenly have this source
of like you can
you know call to the
internet and the internet will answer
your call
and shower you with love and support
and and we'll say like no you are
wonderful like we do love you you're
fantastic
and if you have that kind of emotional
need
and you become like you know you can
kind of tap into it and i don't really
blame the people because it's like it's
their brain right they're like
they're looking to feel a certain way
and the internet can help them feel that
way
so i think it's going to get in a sense
worse but i also think that there
are certain things that we're gonna have
to do like we're gonna have to evolve as
humans
to deal with this um and this is where
you know personally i'd like to spend
more time with people who are
on the other side of the social
relationship
yeah right like talk to people and be
like you know how does it feel and then
like hopefully through that
as many people listen they'll be like oh
crap
that sounds like me like i do that too
and then
we'll sort of start to understand and
like hopefully help those people because
i i don't in a sense like
i blame them kind of if they violate
boundaries and don't respect things like
i think that's you know you should be
held accountable for your actions
but also as someone who has you know
worked in prisons and stuff like that i
i've i've come to appreciate that
you know the psychological drives that
cause us to do
bad things probably can
be helped in some way so like i'm all
for like punishing a crime but at the
same time like rehabilitating the
criminal
absolutely absolutely um
so you're calling twitch you're calling
chat criminals
i'm
i'm sorry to ruin a good moment but i
just i couldn't let that joke
go somebody else was gonna do it if i
didn't do it
i think i think there are a lot of
things but i don't think criminal is one
of them no no no i'm joking i'm joking
i'm just joking
you have to have some humor in there but
yeah it's fast it's really fascinating
yeah i mean i i was about to ask you you
know if there's someone in your
community
yeah but i don't think we should do that
but you know i think like
like in general we should think about
having people who
are on the other side of a parasocial
relationship like
you know we've done that a little bit on
stream i think it's something we could
do more
but i think we have to understand like
what's going on in these people's heads
like
probably explain to them i mean explain
makes it sound like you know we have all
the answers but
i think kind of try to figure out like
we because we have to do something
and so the la i guess so there's a
systems perspective right where you can
sort of
equip tools and things like that um
but there's also i think like a very
human component to it that we have to
explore
that's just the lens that i look at
yeah i mean i think it'd be cool in the
future um
to see if anybody from my community
would be open to talking about that
as well i think that obvious not i think
we all have been able to observe that
the pandemic has only made things worse
because it's forced us
inside and for some of us that are
already maybe more introverted
myself included i mean i'm i'm i'm
i'm somewhere in the middle like i have
no problem being
alone you know um
but for this period of time it's a
different story so
we've all been feeling that isolation
even if we do have
family you know even if we do have
a support system but
it's it's really fascinating and i feel
like now though
um personally
between myself and my mods we've
we've sort of been able to now identify
like red flags
um it took a while it took a while like
longer than you would probably think but
i
i also i know part of that is that we've
been we've tried to be very
gentle with people to understand that
maybe somebody is
suffering from mental health issues or
things like this so we want to tread
lightly and be careful but
now we've sort of been able to identify
certain behaviors where
we understand that it's easier to cut it
off
right when you see it happening uh i
mean i i think it could be very
educational if you would share with us
what those red flags might be but at the
same time
i feel like that could be a mistake in
some way it i can tell you something
because it's going to be very sort of
vague anyways which is
um there's just certain
it's very instinctual but there's
certain like
ways of writing or patterns that you
start to pick up on and you'll see
things and say well that kind of reminds
me of this other problem we had and we
let that problem extend
so let's not even
give it a chance to grow let's just cut
it off so
that's very vague i know it's not like a
clear example of
of what we've dealt with but um there's
just certain behaviors and patterns that
we
tend to pick up on now yeah so i'm
all saying i'll say it like if i see
something like we have a
you know a way to communicate between us
it's like uh let's just
like let's just flag this or
or another mod we'll say like we're
flagging this
internally and if anything else happens
then we're just gonna
ban yeah
so i'm i'm hearing that you know
subconsciously your brain has done some
pattern recognition
yeah right so you guys have seen enough
of it where to where you know sort of
like
what it looks like what it smells like
kind of like you know you can sniff it
out now
um yeah so i think that there's a lot of
room for research like i think it would
be really cool to actually do a study
where we asked streamers
like we could probably like you know put
assemble
like common red flags we could also do a
study
on um actually i i think we should i
think it'd be very cool to do a study on
people who are on
you know the the chatting end of the
parasocial relationship and like you
know do a qualitative research study
where you take 30 people
you ask them what is this experience
like for you like how do you feel where
does it come from
you know things like that um you can
also like we discovered all kinds of
interesting things
uh we're hopefully publishing a paper on
incel
soon um starting to do a paper
hopefully on i think we've got a we've
got a project in the works on
pornography addiction and i think
especially in the pornography addiction
very
some very surprising results in terms of
like things that you would not expect
like really simple things like being
exposed to pornography
at a very young age
from the consumer perspective yeah yeah
so
so like you know you'll have like
eight-year-olds who are shown
pornography and that's even before
they've started to like
experience like you know that they
haven't they're nowhere near puberty
and yeah but it does something in the
brain
and also that pornography addiction
doesn't seem to have really much to do
with being
you know sexually attracted to anything
it really seems to be more of a
shortcut to like a dopamine release in
the brain
and like emotional suppression so
there's a lot of assumptions that
pornography and perversion in some way
are like related but
it appears that for pornography it's
it's not the same
um so i can confirm huh
can confirm
i don't quite know what you mean by that
but okay
yeah i'm i'm also sort of a perv but
like
in a healthy way okay yeah well so my
point is that
you know i think perversion is a whole
separate thing it's just that people
yeah expected these things to be
associated exactly
and they don't they aren't necessarily
um and with parasocial relationships i
imagine if we spent the time like
looking we could start to figure out you
know what's going on here
but yeah that's sorry you got me
spilling
for a second no it's really cool i mean
i wanted to ask you these things and i
know a lot of people
um a lot of people wanted to hear about
this
i think it was very insightful and
hopefully helpful for some people as
well
now i know i offered you a 15 to 30
minute spiel on why you procrastinate
and how to fix it do you still want that
if you're down yes um i would have to go
to the bathroom really quickly though go
for it cool okay
all right let's do it let me figure it
out
okay
i was just in teaching mode
and so you know once i get started
it's hard to stop me and i'm sure that
that was a funny joke
but my mind was not able to once i get
into teaching mode
there's so little i understand about
innuendo
so ready to get started yeah
okay so the first thing uh sasha is i i
want to explain to you
a little bit about traditional indian
medicine or ayurveda
so before i went to medical school you
sound familiar are you familiar with
that or
now okay that's what you asked me
earlier yeah
okay okay yes i don't know a lot about
it but
okay um it was the way you pronounce it
i
i obviously butcher it and so
yeah sometimes people people will
pronounce it ayurveda
yes so um what i'm gonna try to do real
quick
is okay yeah i'm just getting prepped
okay so the first thing is that
not everyone's mind is the same
i know it sounds obvious but like you
know how like some people have
what we call fast metabolisms and they
can eat whatever they want to and not
put on a whole bunch of weight
and then other people are big boned
right
and they're people who can eat salads
all day and they'll still be like
you know above average in terms of
weight and the other interesting thing
is that like obviously there are these
classes of people that may have
something of a oh one second
i was on the wrong way up um so there
are these different classes of people
right so like and it may run in families
but there are people from like africa
that have fast metabolisms
and people completely unrelated from
like croatia that have fast metabolisms
so this is a variance within the
population of the human species
yeah turns out that fast metabolism
people and big bone people actually
share particular genes so they're
actually like these different classes of
people so
a couple thousand years ago in ancient
india there were a group of
doctors ayurvedic doctors who sort of
noticed that human beings have like
these shared
qualities and and so
what they decided is like in order to
understand them because they couldn't
you know do a genetic analysis back then
they started using elements
to explain like these attributes of
people
so what they said is that there are some
people who are like the wind and these
people are vata so they are they tend to
be prone to things like dry skin
they tend to be prone to things like
allergies they tend to have fast
metabolisms
they also tend to have eyes that are
bigger than their stomach
which means that they feel very very
hungry but then actually don't need to
eat a whole lot of food
they also notice cognitive correlations
that these people have so that they get
interested in things very easily but get
bored and things very easily
that these people tend to be quick
studies but
also forget if they don't get like you
know
repeated like they learn easy to forget
okay right and so then so they came up
and they said like oh this person is
like the wind
okay and then they also like notice that
there are other people so some people
are more argumentative
they're more driven they're
medium-bodied they tend to have certain
physical problems with like
indigestion the back teeth their back
teeth tend to be quite yellow
all kinds of interesting correlations
that they made
and then the third type is like the
earth type so these people tend to be
big boned
they tend to be like slow to learn but
slow to forget
they tend to be quite resilient and can
tolerate
punishing situations for long periods of
time
but are also slow to like get out of bad
situations so they'll like
stay in unhealthy relationships for
prolonged periods of time
whereas the vata folks the wind folks
will be like yeah i'm into this person
and yeah i'm not into that person
anymore
and so what they noticed were that these
these sort of elemental forces and if
you look at any human being you can kind
of rank
their their wind their fire and their
earth
and so some people may have a dominant
fire some people may have like a
dominant wind and fire
some people may have you know any
combination
and that disease essentially manifests
from your levels getting too high or too
low
so like people who have a high amount of
vata
if their vata increases a little bit
more they will have things like
allergies
they'll have things like adhd they'll
have things like anxiety
they'll have insomnia but not the kind
where it's hard to fall asleep
the kind where it's hard to stay asleep
or they have interrupted sleep
that vatas have dreams of flying for
example there are all kinds of weird
correlations do you have dreams of
flying oh yeah
okay oh yeah so you are you
are sasha my friend a textbook vata and
a lot of what you describe
as procrastination is a manifestation of
your vata mind
you talked so many times about not being
a nine to fiver
vatas hate the nine to five they can't
do the nine to five
it's just not how their mind is you can
work
from midnight till midnight
one day a week but you would rather do
that
than nine to five five days a week like
that's so that's just the vata mindset
right so it's like it's like you so you
have to think about yourself like the
wind and the wind blows really hard in
one direction
and then stops and blows this way
and then that way right so the first
thing to understand
is that you have avata mind so your
temperament
is going to be a little bit more
procrastination oriented because
vatas also thrive with crises and
deadlines
they they do their best work their mind
is sort of like
eh i can't get excited about that oh
[ __ ] it's happening tomorrow let's go
right like yes so so the vata mind is
going to be prone to what we
call quote-unquote procrastination but i
don't think that's really the right way
to think about it i think the reason we
call it procrastination
is because our society is structured
for bitters and kaphas for the most part
so like if we think about like you know
the nine to five like where does that
come from it's because
bit those which tend to be good managers
by the way vatas are like very difficult
as managers because they're all over the
place so fitness are really good the
fire types are really good at imposing
organization and structure
so like the people who like being like
the manager tend to be like a little bit
more bitter or kapha oriented
and so they created a system that worked
for them and then we pushed all the
vatas into the system
so school is another good example of
like it's eight to three and like that's
the way it should be whereas there's
actually
overwhelming evidence that starting
school at eight o'clock is actually bad
for learning and bad for kids
yeah there's no need to study for that
many hours a day
so anyway coming back to you so i think
the first thing to understand is that
if you want to quote unquote
procrastinate less
you should balance your vata the more
your wind element
raises the more procrastination prone
you will become
and by procrastination prone i mean that
there will be times of your life where
your mind is prone to wander
and like it can't sit still right so
like you can
eat certain things that will help your
mind like be
calmer and more grounded like your
procrastination is going to be
inversely proportional to the degree
that you're grounded
okay that's the first thing so like you
can sort of
you know yeah so that's vata okay
so a couple of solutions there one is
you can lower your vata you can be more
grounded but the other thing to
recognize
is that your mind is going to optimally
function when you're juggling a few
different things
that's just how it works okay so now
let's get to
um a little bit more on you
so the first thing to understand about
procrastination is that it's the vata
mindset okay we're gonna leave the
ayurveda stuff
over here for now um and so we can talk
about balancing your your vata and stuff
like that but then
when we think about procrastination you
had started sasha i believe with
it's some kind of fear of success right
that's what i've heard a lot of people
say and that's something that
personally i cannot identify with so
uh and this is i've read the alchemist
okay um what do you why do you think you
procrastinate
uh when he asked me that earlier it took
me a minute but then i i went back to
um it came to me which is i feel like i
am
i get overwhelmed and so it's hard for
me
to be decisive um
and figure out what is the most
important task at hand
okay so so here are a couple of things
so like we talked about before i think a
big solution to your
procrastination if you're overwhelmed
and having trouble
prioritizing you've already lost the
battle
because the problem is how stuff gets on
your plate
right right right so this is where um
you know we're not gonna i'm just gonna
offer a couple of hypotheses
these could be right these could be
wrong but i think that
there's a certain desperation that you
have because i
i'm gonna sort of like analyze you a
little bit here okay so this is
something you should definitely talk to
with talk through with a therapist if
you feel like this resonates with you
but what i'm getting the sense of is
because of something about your
background and because you're walking a
tightrope
i feel like that emotional feeling of
walking a tightrope
doesn't allow you to pass on
opportunities
right because you feel like i have to
grow i have to adapt i have to stay up
with the trends
um we don't really need to go into that
my point is that in terms of like
not fearing it's a fear of success like
you
and this will become clear in a second i
don't think yours is a fear of success
what i get from you is more of like
a desperation of like being on the
tightrope and
like you don't have a choice does that
sort of make sense
it does the thing that i'll oh slightly
disagree with there
is that like um not being able to say no
because i've actually been very aware of
that over the past i would say like
four or five years and it's something
i've really worked on and
learning to say no okay so
but that being said what you're saying
is all the other things i am still
putting on my plate
right so i'm still putting this and one
last thing before i forget
but you i just want to say it and then
we can go back to time management
and then we can circle back to that
though yeah so so this is where i'd say
that you know if you've learned how to
say
no and you still wind up with too many
things on your plate
how does that happen right because i
think that it's not about saying
i don't know it still feels to me like
there's an emotional driver which
is determining how much stuff ends up on
your plate in the first place
right so like i i maybe it's not
emotional but i would explore that so
like let's just put emotional driver we
don't need to go there
right now okay so now i'm going to talk
more generally so i tend to think about
procrastination like a couple different
kinds of procrastination okay
so the first is what i would call
idealistic procrastination
so what this means is that some people
don't act because they're not ready
so like for example if i want to apply
for a job
and i procrastinate on applying for a
job the reason that i'm procrastinating
because i want to wait until my resume
is good like i need to revise my resume
like i can send
a crappy resume today or i can send the
perfect resume tomorrow
so i'm not going to apply for a job
until everything is ideal
yes right so like this is where like you
have this
you have this idea in your mind of
how this task should be executed yes
right
idea or even fantasy of execution
yes i can relate to that and that's
something that i've also
been working on is
is letting go of certain things and
understanding that
like nothing can always be perfect
yeah so like like it's the chase for
perfection that keeps people paralyzed
in the moment
mm-hmm right like i know it sounds kind
of weird but like sometimes you know
sometimes i'll it almost feels to be
like you take a 100
chance at an f as opposed to a 20 chance
at an a
and it's like people people are like
yeah i'd rather like i want to do it
perfectly or
not at all and that's where you know
because you have this idea of like what
you want it to look like
what it'll accomplish like i'm going to
do such a like it's going to be so
great when i do it but i haven't
set that circumstance up so i'm just not
going to do it
or haven't been good with time
management to allow yourself
to be prepared we'll get to time
management later okay
so idealistic procrastination is
something that i i kind of think
of is like it this is a little bit
psychological it's cognitive
right and it's actually like attachment
based
and what i mean by that is we're
attached to a particular
outcome so like we're attached to it
being a certain way like
like my favorite example is one that i i
have in my head all the time
i will start going to the gym once i'm a
little bit in shape
because oh god yeah right yeah and so if
you kind of think about it it's
the attachment to like not wanting to
look
out of shape when you go to the gym that
keeps you from going to the gym
so oddly enough the solution here is a
little bit more like
grief like you got to just let that go
and like learn to take an l
yeah right you gotta just be like you
know what it's gonna suck
yep um or al i guess
so so that's where where i i would say
like so this is different
because it's not really emotional it's
like i want this thing to happen
perfectly and you have to let go of like
you have to grieve that perfect outcome
to be able to move forward
yeah okay so another good example is i
have i'm working with someone who's
going to enroll in college once they get
their like sleep schedule
fixed right and so their sleep schedule
never gets fixed so that
they never go to college it's a form of
idealistic procrastination
so second is avoidance procrastination
so this is closer to what the instagram
folks or whatever social media folks are
saying
so this tends to be based in emotions
so this is sort of like like the
avoidance procrastination is actually a
protective mechanism
and what it's protecting you from is
like a particular emotion so for example
let's say i want to ask someone out but
i'm afraid of rejection so i don't ask
them out
and i tell myself i really want to ask
him out i really want to ask him out i
really want to ask him out so in a sense
you could call that procrastination
because i never get up
off my ass and ask someone out but what
i'm really trying to do is like
avoid the emotional possibility of
rejection
yeah so sometimes when i talk to people
who want to you know find a job
like they feel stupid going in
and like asking for um
they feel stupid like going in and like
asking for a job application they don't
need to feel stupid but they just do
so a lot of times like how do you tell
if you have avoidance procrastination
if people use umbrella terms like if
they call themselves bad
lazy stupid or incompetent and that's
the reason they're procrastinating
that is likely to be an avoidance
procrastination the things that
avoided procrastinators tell themselves
is usually diagnosing them within
themselves with an unfixable problem
like
i'm lazy that's why i procrastinate and
like laziness is like it's an attribute
of who you
are there's nothing to do about it
there's there's no
you know it's kind of just like so like
oh i you
drew the short straw you're lazy in life
sucks to be you
you know it sort of doesn't you can't do
anything about it
um does that make sense yes so
the other thing that that these people
tend to do is rational
a lot of rational justifications
so they'll give themselves lots of
reasons why they're not doing something
but at the end of the day it's usually
emotional oh
you know like and it may even look like
idealistic procrastination it's sort of
like
yeah i'll ask this person out once i get
in shape and sure that's like there's an
idealistic component to it but it's
really
what's really driving that is like the
fear of like being rejected
and what they're trying to do is like
control circumstances so that they can
avoid emotions
this is another sign right yeah
and this is where like like asking
someone out i'm gonna wait till i'm sure
they're in love with me before i even
ask them out
because i'm afraid of the rejection yeah
and maybe there's fear of success in
your case there may be an emotional
driver which could be like avoidance
procrastination
i don't really think that's the case
with you i'll we'll get back to you in a
second
um and then the third
oh this may be you sasha operational
procrastination
okay
this is more frontal but
what i mean is frontal lobe sorry so i
was just gonna ask do you mean frontal
lobe okay
yeah okay so this is where like so vatas
tend to be prone to this type
because frontal lobe problems also
manifest as like anxiety and adhd
so like this is kind of like an adhd
procrastination
tends to be falls under this category
but what i would say is um
so this is the kind where like so i have
a three-year-old and i have a
five-year-old
and if i tell the five-year-old to clean
clean up their room
they're able to do that but if i tell
the three-year-old to clean your room
she's not really able to do that does
that make sense
yeah what's the difference between the
three-year-old and five-year-old why can
the five-year-old clean their room but
the three-year-old can't
that's i would say the age is the first
thing i think of like a five-year-old is
a little bit more independent
they can safe you know they can focus
for longer periods of time
compared to a toddler who's just only
been walking for a while and
is still pretty dependent on parents
yeah so if we look at like
what the age means right what's the
difference between a three-year-old's
brain and a five-year-old's brain
you've sussed it out instinctively
perfectly right so that
the five-year-old can kind of stay
focused but if you really think about it
what stay focused
means is actually breaking down the task
into its component parts so this is
where like people feel
overwhelmed if they're operational
procrastinators
and what that means is like the
five-year-old understands that cleaning
the room is putting away the toys
putting away the books and putting away
my stuffed animals i can tell the
three-year-old
put away your stuffed animals and she
can understand that
but she's not able to take the abstract
of cleaning the room
and breaking it down into its component
pieces
and so when she looks at the dirty room
her mind is
overwhelmed with like how do i break
down this task and execute on it
does that make sense yes absolutely
so like when we think about something
like um and this is also like a problem
in gamers too so gamers are prone to
this
because video games operationalize stuff
for us
right okay here's the quest go collect
eight of these things
then go here then go here then go here
then go here
so we're not really taught how to like
abstract out things from start to finish
even our sandbox games basically like
teach us how to play in the sandbox
right it's not truly free form
so when you take gamers and you tell
them to go find a job there are actually
a thousand small tasks
but the our minds actually are not like
natural at breaking up those tasks so
finding a job
feels overwhelming because we don't know
how to break it down into its component
parts
so does that sound like that describes
you
yeah definitely and i
yeah go ahead and i feel like i i do
better
when um
i waver a lot so like i'll have really
disciplined
stints where i have lists and i have
checklists
and sub checklists and i got like the
stuff that is for
me uh in my personal life just like
random stuff that has to be done and
then the stuff that i want to do
professionally creatively
and then i'll fall off yeah so that's it
okay that's where i mean i'd say that
that sounds very about that of me so
here's what i'd suggest for you
okay the first is that like you know
maybe there's some weird emotional [ __ ]
in there
who knows if it's not what floats your
boat no big deal
sorry i i'm i'm done with the ipad part
uh i'm yeah i'm just a senior sorry
yeah it's okay um so here's what i'd say
sasha for you
if you procrastinate like the first
thing to understand is that you're gonna
be the most successful
when you have external prompts so you're
gonna respond well to crises and
deadlines
the next thing to understand is that
procrastination is not a problem
procrastination is actually a solution
so if our brain so this is like
literally what happens our brain has
this circuit
that tries to figure out how to be
efficient and so what
your brain tells you when you're in like
let's say you're in school and it's like
i could start studying today and i can
get an a and i can study one hour a day
for 30 days
but our brain is actually like you know
what we can get a b if you just cram the
night before
and so if you actually think about an
energy investment doing things perfectly
is not efficient it's actually
very inefficient because why would i
want to study 30 hours for an a when i
can squeak by with a b with six
like why would i do that so
in your case i'd say be careful about
why things get on your plate is number
one
see if there's some kind of desperation
there's some kind of like
because we see this a lot with streamers
where like you feel like you you know
you can't
afford to pass sounds like you've
learned how to say no
second thing to think about in terms of
your procrastination is what i would do
is pick like three or four things and
rotate between them
so what you'll find is that the way for
you to work 80 hours a week
is to have four different projects that
work 20 hours that you need 20 hours a
week
if you devote yourself to one project
for 40 hours a week
you will do a worse job than four
projects
at 20 hours a week even though
technically you're working half as much
in one scenario it's just gonna not
bring
out the like the interest
right like when you get excited about
something well i also like
my mind immediately goes to
when you know you should stop working on
something because your brain and body
are tired but you
push through because you just want to
finish and get it over with and then you
make mistakes
that then add hours to having to finish
that
that's where that is so so i think your
problem with sasha you don't need to
motivate
yourself to work so people who have a
problem with procrastination think that
i need to motivate myself
when i don't feel like working right
it's actually the exact opposite you
need to demotivate yourself
at the right times and then your
procrastination will get way better
you need to restrain your motive it's
two sides of the same coin
you need to restrain your motivation
when you get excited
when it's time to stop you need to
restrain yourself
and stop so procrastination in your
in your case i don't think is like it's
not about a lack of motivation it's
actually about a lack of restraint
and i think that as you have fewer
things
like because like you said okay i want
to finish it now i made a bunch of
mistakes so the next day your to-do list
has been inflated
with stuff that should have never like
it would have been easier to just stop
and finish it today
yeah right and and so like i would i
really reign in your vata and then
also try to cultivate kind of a system
around it which is like
you know get other people to like be
beholden to other people and you'll do a
good job
yeah because left to your own devices
it's going to be a mess
let other people like you know
my team is really good about like
forcing me into meetings they just throw
something on my calendar because they've
learned
unfortunately that if they like ask me
to do something it's never gonna happen
if they're just like
hey i need you to show up at this time
and it feels weird because
i outrank them in some way but they have
to give me orders and we figured out
that that's what works best
yeah um i don't know if that was helpful
for not but that's my spiel
yeah it is helpful it's interesting and
i was just
helpful for people watching too um
i wanted to figure out a way to pose
this but like i don't know
it's coming out more as a statement so i
don't want to say it like
sense but i kind of go i'm go my mind
keeps going back to that question that
was posed earlier
which was like let me just bring it up
because i don't i don't want to
paraphrase
it one second
okay so the the actual question was how
long should breaks actually be
and how long should you work before
taking them so i mean i
that's kind of that's a little bit broad
because that can mean like
in a work day or that could mean always
you know
um so yeah so that depends on your
ayurvedic dosha so this is the problem
with questions that people ask
like like western science is about on
average what works for the most number
of people
so when the fda comes up with a 2 000
calorie a day recommendation
that's not going to work as well for the
fast metabolism people versus the big
bone people
so when should you take breaks so what
i'll literally do when i do like
corporate consulting is we'll do
ayurvedic analyses of everyone's doshas
and then what we'll do is i'll tell them
like if you're avata you should take
frequent short breaks you should plan on
working four
two hour blocks in the day start early
start at six a.m try to finish like as
early as possible
so like vata's also come online fast and
run out of stamina fast
so how often should you take breaks you
should take them frequently because
you're prone to burnout like if you push
yourself
you're going to pay for it the next day
so you need like pre-emptive breaks
if you're a bitter leaving tasks undone
is going to be very infuriating
so you've got to like push through like
work like pithas are decent nine to
fivers
and and if you're kapha if you're like
the earth element like you probably need
you can go a longer time without a break
but then you probably need a long break
when it's time for a break so as avata
when i go on a 10-day vacation
i've i've i'm done relaxing on day five
and i'm like i'm gonna do some work now
yeah so like the vata is like but a boy
like i need three day weekends
every week because on day four i'm like
oh my god i've worked so
long on tuesday morning it's like oh
when is the weekend
you know yeah and then by like by sunday
morning if i like don't work on friday
by sunday morning i'm like let me get
back to work
let's go you know so yeah frequent
breaks that are shorter for vatas
you know medium length breaks at decent
intervals nine to five
evenings off and then for kapha's like
you can work seven days
ten days go for it and then take like
four days off
you know it sort of depends that's what
i'd say yeah
and then a question that i have that
kind of ties into all this is
um i kind of started to mention it but
i feel like i'm really um
like i go through these moments like i
said where when i'm really disciplined
with like
let's say it's a list for example and
these are the things that need to be
accomplished
these are the things that i just want to
accomplish
um when i'm really proactive at staying
on top of that
and i can actually see like things being
crossed out
done done done it makes me feel good so
it motivates me to continue
and then something will happen like a
disrupter in life will happen
it is so hard for me to pick
back up where i left off so that
disruptor is a separate conversation so
this goes to
okay so let's just analyze that in two
ways the first is
you gotta be careful about the
motivation of checking something off
because when you check something off
what do you feel like doing
it depends but usually like it i want to
keep going
so what's your problem you need to learn
how to restrain yourself
because like you're like yeah let's keep
going let's go let's go
yeah and then you may run out of steam
before you realize it so i'd say really
be careful
when you check when you're done with
your work for the day sasha you have to
learn how to restrain yourself and be
done with the work for the day
don't keep on adding on work that's why
your plate is so terrible
yes it's restrained your problem is like
you're so motivated that you take on new
projects and then you're overwhelmed
and then i'm like or like then the next
day i'm exhausted
and then it's hard for me to get the day
started so this is where you got to be
careful because you say something throws
me off
but the question is what is the
stat yeah hey we have a meeting oh [ __ ]
sorry
we have a meeting i thought it was a
four ah okay
i'll just finish this up and then then
um i gotta apparently i have a meeting
case in point see i didn't restrain
myself we were supposed to we were
supposed to stop an hour ago
so i got excited and and so i have a
crisis
and deadline that comes and like
restrains me
perfect this is great yeah exactly so
i'll i'll just
illustrate this like so i'd be careful
about your motivation and what you tack
on because then you say when something
throws you off
what you know how is your reserve energy
when that disrupter comes
because if you were overly motivated
yesterday it's going to be
easier to get thrown off and then what
happens is we look at the disrupter
but we don't like we look at the wave
that knocked us off but we don't look at
the health of our boat
yeah so what you really need to focus on
is like you know having a steady boat
restraining yourself and then you'll be
more resilient against disruptions that
being said
you know disruptions are absolutely
thing and sometimes you can have a great
boat and you can still have
you know a tsunami and you'll you know
it's over but
anyway does that make sense yes
definitely
okay yeah so restrain yourself do less
not more
and that goes yeah this i'll have to
continue with chat
too but like that i think goes back into
time management
my lack of it my lack of it i have to go
now
because i've done a bad job at time
management
and so the way that i stay successful is
by having
crises okay she's yeah sorry sasha we
gotta
you gotta feel it okay all right thank
you
oh man okay okay bye yeah
bye boy that ended abruptly let's rate
someone we're gonna is iping tai chi we
gotta go
gotta go chat gotta go let's go do some
tai chi calm down
i gotta run chat love you guys